


Sympathise with me, indeed! Ah, no! Cast your sympathy on the chill
waves of troubled waters; fling it on the oases of futurity; dash it
against the rock of gossip; or, better still, allow it to remain within
the false and faithless bosom of buried scorn.

Such were a few remarks of Irene as she paced the beach of limited
freedom, alone and unprotected. Sympathy can wound the breast of trodden
patience,--it hath no rival to insure the feelings we possess, save that
of sorrow.




It has often been the chief subject of comment amongst the few
distinguished visitors welcomed within its spacious apartments, why
seemingly the finest rooms the mansion owned were always shut against
their eager and scrutinizing gaze; or why, when referred to by any of
them, the matter was always treated with silence.

All that can now be done is merely to allow the thought to dwindle into
bleak oblivion, until aroused to that standard of disclosure which
defies hindrance.

Within the venerable walls surrounding this erection of amazement and
wonder may be seen species of trees rarely, if ever, met with; yea,
within the beaded borders of this grand old mansion the eye of the
privileged beholds the magnificent lake, studded on every side with
stone of costliest cut and finish; the richest vineries, the most
elegant ferns, the daintiest conservatories, the flowers and plants of
almost every clime in abundance, the most fashionable walks, the most
intricate windings that imagination could possibly conceive or genius
contrive. In fact, it has well been named "The Eden of Luxury."






Though a man of forty summers, he never yet had entertained the thought
of yielding up his bacheloric ideas to supplace them with others which
eventually should coincide with those of a different sex; in fact,
he never had bestowed a thought on changing his habits and manner of
living, nor until fully realising his position of birthright, that had
been treasured by his ancestors for such a lengthened period, and which,
sooner or later, must pass into strangers' hands, did the thought ever
occur to him of entering into the league of the blessed.

The clock had just chimed nine when a maid entered with a note, neatly
laid on a trim little tray, which she placed on the table close beside
her master, and then retired. It was rather unusual for him to receive
letters so late in the evening, nor until he was in full possession of
its contents he could not form the faintest imagination of its worth.



How the look of jealousy, combined with sarcasm, substituted those of
love and bashfulness! How the titter of tainted mockery rang throughout
the entire apartment, and could hardly fail to catch the ear of her
whose queenly appearance occasioned it! These looks and taunts serving
to convince Sir John of Nature's fragile cloak which covers too often
the image of indignation and false show, and seals within the breasts of
honour and equality resolutions of an iron mould. On being introduced to
Irene, Sir John concluded instantly, without instituting further
inquiry, that this must be the original of the portrait so warmly
admired by him. There she stood, an image of perfection and divine
beauty, attired in a robe of richest snowy tint, relieved here and there
by a few tiny sprigs of the most dainty maidenhair fern, without any
ornaments whatever, save a diamond necklet of famous sparkling lustre
and priceless value.




Arouse the seeming deadly creature to that standard of joy and gladness
which should mark his noble path! Endow him with the dewdrops of
affection; cast from him the pangs of the dull past, and stamp them for
ever beneath the waves of troubled waters; brighten his life as thou
wouldst that of a faded flower; and when the hottest ray of that
heavenly orb shall shoot its cheerful charge against the window panes of
Dunfern Mansion, the worthy owner can receive it with true and profound
thankfulness. Three weeks had scarcely passed ere Sir John was made the
recipient of another invitation to Dilworth Castle. This second effusion
of cordiality required neither anxious thought nor prolonged decision
how to act, knowing as he did that it would again serve to bring his
present thoughts into practice by affording him another opportunity of
sharing in the loving looks of one for whom he feared there dwelt a
strong inclination on his part to advance his affection.


Being very domesticated, and having the stiff ideas of a bachelor of
long standing so firmly imprinted in his nature, he felt very diffident
in asking the object of his visit when next they should meet. But Lady
Dilworth entering before taking his departure, saved him putting the shy
question by placing herself in his position and demanding the required
reply. Sir John promised without further ceremony to visit them more
frequently in future, and left their midst with hasty step, lingering in
the hall to cast another look at the lovely form which stood not far
distant. Leisurely leaning back in his carriage, and burying himself in
his great and costly cloak demanded by the night's icy aspect, he rolled
along towards his home drowned in sweet thought of the beautiful girl
whom he only recently knew, but whose regard for her raged with such
rambling anxiety as to convince him of the propriety of making her aware
how he meant to play the part of lover.

Until now he was inclined to be prejudiced against the snares and
allurements of women, but he strongly resolved to try gradually and
abandon every unkind thought harboured in his mind against them, fearing
lest all his conjured imaginations were both unjust and selfish; and
determined to drown them for ever in the clashing gulf of fate, felt a
prouder and happier mortal than before.

But time would solve the problem and heal the wound which penetrated so
deeply his bosom. Yea, a short time he hoped would bring his creeping
fever of endearment under the binding stay of appointed authority, and
heal its weakening effects with the sacred salve of truth.

Not until the horses dashed up the winding avenue with increased
alacrity was he shaken from his meditating attitude, to be ushered once
more into his home of boundless wealth. The lonely stare of grave
bewilderment took the place of happiness that formerly seemed built in
abundance for him within its walls, as he entered the palatial and
gorgeously equipped abode he principally inhabited, feeling the tinge of
the dull past filling him with entire despair, whilst meditating on the
happy future which presented itself to him. How in a trivial period this
lonely spot, he thought, should prove the beacon of never-dying bliss,
when once furnished with the most precious treasure on earth--a virtuous
woman! Ah! the very thought of his embosomed and anticipated alliance
made him nervously happy; and believing a bright and noble future lay in
store for the lonely owner of Dunfern Estate, he resolved to indulge
nature in a few hours of calm repose.

The days moved along more quickly Sir John believed than formerly; and
possibly he may have imagined this was so, as he felt no longer fettered
with fear of fighting with his inward friend--obstinacy, whose hand of
drowsy bachelorism seemed for ever closed to his changing charity; he
had at last thrown aside the garb of female dislike, and patronised that
of a warm-hearted lover.





When on the eve of glory, whilst brooding over the prospects of a bright
and happy future, whilst meditating upon the risky right of justice,
there we remain, wanderers on the cloudy surface of mental woe,
disappointment and danger, inhabitants of the grim sphere of anticipated
imagery, partakers of the poisonous dregs of concocted injustice. Yet
such is life.


At first he was careless and indifferent to the flowery harangues of
mothers who paid him periodical visits, with their daughters, of
apology, and firmly retained the obstinate qualities of an autocratic
ruler, until softened in the presence of one he found he was learning to
steadily love. He believed now that the chief stripes,
viz.--observation, inclination, advancement and accomplishment, in the
well-spun web of matrimony, must harmonise with the groundwork of
happiness, without which our lives are not worth an unstamped coin.

Love's path, on which Sir John was known now to tread with the step of
intensity, seemed smooth as the ice of Inglewood. There were no
obstacles in his way of which he was yet aware, save imagination; this,
also, was chased from his mind by the evident and ample return of
Irene's polished affection, the foul gloss of which he failed to notice,
and whose pretentions were so cleverly carried out as to defy detection.




Yes, when the merriment was at its height, and the heat too oppressive
to allow much comfort to the corpulent, the espoused of Irene dropped
unexpectedly out of the midst of the aristocratic throng, and being
passionately an ardent admirer of the fairy-like fruits of the efforts
of the horticulturist, directed his footsteps towards the well-filled
conservatory at the south wing of the building.

The different-shaded lights which dangled from its roof bestowed a look
of Indian exquisiteness on the many quaint and delicate productions of
nature that rested daintily in their beds of terra-cotta tint.


Sir John wandered in and out through the numerous windings of sweetest
fragrance, until arriving at the farthest corner, of rather darkened
shade, and on a wire couch beheld the object of his pursuit, in closest
conversation with her tutor, whose name he had altogether failed to
remember, only having had the pleasure of his acquaintance a few hours
before.

"Can it be possible?" exclaimed Sir John, in profound astonishment.
"Why, I have been searching for you for some time past, and have
accidentally found you at last!" Irene, rising to her feet in a second,
was utterly dazed, and had the dim lights shewed her proud face to
advantage, the ruddy glow of deepest crimson guilt would have manifested
itself to a much greater degree. Making multitudinous apologies, etc.,
she at once joined Sir John, who led her back, in apparent triumph, to
share the next waltz.

How the true heart beat with growing passion during the remainder of the
merry festivity, and as the final announcement of separation was
whispered from ear to ear, the gradual wane of Love's lofty right would
fain have dwindled into pompous nothing as the thought kept tickling his
warm enthusiasm with the nimble fingers of jealousy. That she whom he
had ardently hoped should share his future with sheer and loving
caresses of constant companionship and wife-like wisdom should be
trapped in probably vowing to another her great devotion for him!

But better allow the sickening thought to die on the eve of insult
rather than live in the breast of him who, at no distant date, would
hear the merry peals of wedding bells ring with gladness, and naturally
rejoice at the object of their origin.






Our hopes when elevated to that standard of ambition which demands
unison may fall asunder like an ancient ruin. They are no longer fit for
construction unless on an approved principle. They smoulder away like
the ashes of burnt embers, and are cast outwardly from their confined
abode, never more to be found where once they existed only as
smouldering serpents of scorned pride.

The little chat that Irene apparently enjoyed in the conservatory would
gladly have become an act of forgetfulness on her part had not Sir John
reminded her of its existence a few days afterwards. The spark of
jealous passion had not fully died out after the incident referred to,
and awaiting silently its decease, Sir John almost had grown a mourner
to its imagined demise, following its undying remains so far as the
village of Opportunity, when it was again to revive and shine as
luminously as before.



Walking leisurely along, and stooping to pick up some fallen fruit,
he suddenly heard a faint sound issue amongst the trees. Remaining
breathless for a few seconds, lest he might be deceived by the rippling
sounds of the adjacent waves, he again heard the same sweet strain, but
of much longer duration than before, and quietly moving towards the spot
whence it issued, another sound met his ear in the distance, which
seemed to be the hasty tread of some one making good an escape, before
he got time to view the object he would eagerly have pursued, but
checking his desire somewhat, he allowed the matter to sink into
silence. Boldly moving towards the spot whence the sound of music
issued, how delightfully surprised was he to find a
magnificently-constructed little summer-house, a charming pyramidal
Gothic structure, robed internally with mossy mantles of nature, and
brightened beyond conception with the instrument of humanity which gave
origin to such pathetic and sweetened strains.



Irene held in her snowy palms a roll of Italian music, which she
earnestly endeavoured to conceal from his penetrating stare, probably on
account of the words contained therein, which for ever would be unknown
to his varied sphere of knowledge, and which would undoubtedly have
betrayed her feelings, never dreaming that they should strike other ears
than those for whom they practically were intended.

Perceiving her great excitement at the unexpected appearance of him,
who ever afterwards kept his jealous thoughts in silent motion, he
absolutely evaded making any inquiry whatever, or slightest allusion to
the name and nature of the parchment she so firmly retained. Sir John
chatted gaily until he gained good ground for delivering to her the
message that instinct had so prompted him to utter.




"I must acquaint you, though it pains me deeply to do so, that lately
you have not treated me with such respect or attention as you certainly
lavished upon me before the announcement of our engagement, and for what
reason or reasons I now wish to be apprised. You seem when in company
with others to ignore my remarks to you entirely, and treat them with
proud disdain, as if shame took the place of pride at my wordy approach!
I felt and do feel quite hurt, and am resolved that no such repetition
shall take place in future. I promised to be at the castle last night,
but unfortunately I felt indisposed, and only that I wished to have a
thorough understanding relative to your recent conduct, and which has
pained me acutely, I should not have ventured out of doors this evening
either. I was, in consequence, obliged to write you last night, asking a
written reply, which you failed to give! And this evening, instead of
being doubly rejoiced at my presence, you, on the contrary, seem doubly
annoyed! I therefore pray, my dearest Irene, that you will, and I am
persuaded honestly, not hesitate to satisfy me regarding this
unpleasantness, that should anything of which you are now aware cause
your conduct to be changed towards me, do not allow it a lair within
your breast, but confide in me as thou wouldst in a dearly-trusted and
faithful lover."



"My dearest and much beloved, I assure you your remarks have astounded
me not a little! Your words sting like a wasp, though, I am quite
convinced, unintentionally. You are well aware that within a short
period I will be marked out publicly as mistress of Dunfern mansion--an
honour revered in every respect by me; an honour to which I at one time
dare never aspire; an honour coveted by many much more worthy than I,
whose parentage is as yet bathed in the ocean of oblivious ostentation,
until some future day, when I trust it shall stand out boldly upon the
brink of disclosure to dry its saturated form and watery wear with the
heat of equality. You are about to place me in a position which cannot
fail to wring from jealousy and covetousness their flaming torch of
abuse. Yes, Sir John, on me you have not ceased to lavish every
available treasure and token of your unbounded love. You have been to me
not only a loyal admirer, but a thoroughly upright and estimable example
of life's purest treasures. You have resolved to place me by your side
as your equal, whilst wealth in boundless store is thirsting for your
touch. You have elevated my unknown position to such a pitch as to defy
taunt or jeer, and at any time if I may have, seemingly, ignored your
advances, it was purely want of thought, and not through any underhand
motive or scheme whatever.

"I assure you your allusion to my verbal answer last night is very
pronounced, and may be overlooked on the ground of pure disappointment.
Our time of singleness is now short, and begging your forgiveness for my
seeming neglect or indifference, I hope the tide, which until now has
flown so gently, may not be stayed on the eve of entering the harbour of
harmony, peace, and love."



The silvery touch of fortune is too often gilt with betrayal: the
meddling mouth of extravagance swallows every desire, and eats the heart
of honesty with pickled pride: the impostury of position is petty, and
ends, as it should commence, with stirring strife. But conversion of
feminine opinions tries the touchy temper of opposition, and too seldom
terminates victoriously.

"Great mercy! Only another week and I shall almost cease to be a free
thinker! Just seven days more and what!--I shall openly have to confess
to the world an untruth! Would there be any means of flight from the
dangerous dragon that haunts me night and day? Could anything possible
be done to save myself from false alliance? Too late!--too late!

"Only seven days and this beautiful boudoir shall own me no more, with
its walls of purest white and gilded borders!



But future facts had to be solved, which undoubtedly would be treated
with more comparative reverence than heretofore, by him who suffered
severely--yea, acutely--from the blow struck him on the eve of
aspiration and achievement. Love, alas! when smitten with the sword of
indifference, dieth soon, but once struck on the tunnelled cheek of
secrecy with the hand of pity there leaves a scar of indelible
intolerance, until wiped out for ever with the curative balsam of
battled freedom.


It may interest some to know that Irene silently and secretly resolved
not to array herself in white; she was reconciled that neither the
marriage robe of purity nor the too beaming wedding face was to appear
before such devout and reverential Church dignitaries as the Bishop of
Barelegs and Canon Foot, with highly impressed and open falsehood, as
that practised by her in the absence of labouring under such a solemn
vow.



"Born under a lucky star," was the whispered echo throughout the
distinguished guests who sat down to breakfast after the junction of
opposites. Yea, this was a remark of truth visibly, and might have kept
good during the remainder of their lives had not the tuitional click of
bygone attachment kept moving with measured pace, until stopped after
months, or it may be, small years of constant swinging.

Better leave her to the freedom of a will that ere long would sink the
ship of opulence in the sea of penury, and wring from her the
words:--"Leave me now, deceptive demon of deluded mockery; lurk no more
around the vale of vanity, like a vindictive viper; strike the lyre of
living deception to the strains of dull deadness, despair and doubt; and
bury on the brink of benevolence every false vow, every unkind thought,
every trifle of selfishness and scathing dislike, occasioned by
treachery in its mildest form!"




Distant shores have great attractions and large expectations. They
harbour around their beaches the exile and patriot, the king and
peasant, the lawyer and artisan, the rising swindler and ruined prince.
Spotted throughout the unclaimed area of bared soil may be seen the
roughly-constructed huts and lofty homes of honest industry. Yes, and
concealed therein are hearts yearning for the land of nativity and
national freedom; hearts which sorrow after bygone days, and sink low
when brooding over the future tide of fortune which already has stopped
its gentle flow.

The reception on the evening of Irene's marriage was glorious and
brilliant, as were all those given by Lord and Lady Dilworth, and,
although attended by society's cream alone, there appeared a visible and
unhidden vacancy in the absence of her who so often lent a glow of
gaiety to the high-toned throng.

There seemed to be no rival now of buried lineage to mar their desire,
or incur the jealousy of would-be opponents; no one to share
sympathetically with the afflicted sister of equality and worth; nor was
there any one present of such knightly and commanding dignity as he,
who, not many hours previous, had taken upon him the sad duty of
delivering up the keys of devotion to her who kept the door of ardent
adoration locked against his approach.

It would probably be a long time ere such a scene of silly jealousy and
ire would take place as that witnessed, in which the greater majority of
those present were then partakers! And, further, it would surely be a
much longer period before these guests would again share alike in the
generosity so often extended them by Lord and Lady Dilworth.



Could human mind contemplate that she who reigned supreme amongst
society, she who gave the ball in honor of Irene Iddesleigh's marriage,
should ere four days be a penniless pauper? Yet such was fact, not
fiction.

The seventh day of August saw Lord and Lady Dilworth titled beggars,
steering their course along the blue and slippery waves of the Atlantic,
to be participators in the loathing poverty which always exists in homes
sought after destruction, degradation, and reckless extravagance.

So soon may the house of gladness and mirth be turned into deepest
grief! How the wealthiest, through sheer folly, are made to drink the
very essence of poverty and affliction in its purest form! How the
golden dust of luxury can be blown about with the wind of events, and is
afterwards found buried in the fields of industry and thrift! Their
names, which were as a household word, would now be heard no more, and
should sink into abject silence and drowned renown, leaving them to
battle against the raging war of ruin and hunger, and retire into
secluded remorse.




"Can it be that she who proffered such ecstacy for months before, on the
eve of our return, is now no more? or can it be possible that we have
crossed each other on the wide waters of tossing triumph or wanton woe?

"Speak at once, for pity's sake! and do not hide from me the answer of
truth and honest knowledge? Oh, merciful heavens!"





It was fully two hours ere she partly recovered from her ghastly swoon,
to find herself the object of numerous onlookers of the household of
which she was now future mistress.




These differences arose chiefly through his great disinclination to
attend the numerous social gatherings which awaited them after their
marriage. Sir John, finding it almost impossible to stare socialism in
the face, seemed inclined rather to stick to the old rule of domestic
enjoyment, never forgetting to share fully his cheerful conversation
with his wife, when so desired, which, sorrowful to relate, was too
seldom.




A word of warning tends to great advantage when issued reverently from
the lips of the estimable. It serves to allay the danger pending on
reticence, and substantiates in a measure the confidence which has
hitherto existed between the parties concerned. Again, a judicious
advice, extended to the stubborn and self-willed, proves futile, and
incurs the further malice and fiery indignation of the regardless, the
reckless, and the uncharitable.



Indeed, three months of married life scarcely elapsed until she cast a
glow of despair within the breast which too often heaved for her with
true piety and love. And what was meant by such strange conduct on her
part, her husband often wondered. Only the mighty cessation of
friendship caused by the flight of her beloved guardians, never
attributing such silence and stubbornness to any fault he justly
committed.





The thoughts of disappointment and shame were building for themselves a
home of shelter within him--disappointment on account of cherished hopes
which unmistakably were crushed to atoms beneath the feet of her who was
the sole instigation of their origin; shame, in all probability, lest
the love he sought and bought with the price of self might not be his
after all! and may still be reserved against his right and kept for
another much less worthy! The little jealous spark again revived and
prompted him to renew its lustre, which had been hidden for a length of
time behind the cloud of dread so silently awaiting the liberty of
covering the hill of happiness.




if I may use such familiarity, I have summoned you hither, it
may be to undergo a stricter examination than your present condition
probably permits; but knowing, as you should, my life must be miserable
under this growing cloud of unfathomed dislike, I became resolved to
end, if within my power, such contentious and unladylike conduct as that
practised by you towards me of late. It is now quite six months--yea,
weary months--since I shielded you from open penury and insult, which
were bound to follow you, as well as your much-loved protectors, who
sheltered you from the pangs of penniless orphanage; and during these
six months, which naturally should have been the pet period of nuptial
harmony, it has proved the hideous period of howling dislike!

"I, as you see, am tinged with slightly snowy tufts, the result of
stifled sorrow and care concerning you alone; and on the memorable day
of our alliance, as you are well aware, the black and glossy locks of
glistening glory crowned my brow. There dwelt then, just six months this
day, no trace of sorrow or smothered woe--no variety of colour where it
is and shall be so long as I exist--no furrows of grief could then be
traced upon my visage. But, alas! now I feel so changed! And why?

"Because I have dastardly and doggedly been made a tool of treason in
the hands of the traitoress and unworthy! I was enticed to believe that
an angel was always hovering around my footsteps, when moodily engaged
in resolving to acquaint you of my great love, and undying desire to
place you upon the highest pinnacle possible of praise and purity within
my power to bestow!

"I was led to believe that your unbounded joy and happiness were never
at such a par as when sharing them with me. Was I falsely informed of
your ways and worth? Was I duped to ascend the ladder of liberty, the
hill of harmony, the tree of triumph, and the rock of regard, and when
wildly manifesting my act of ascension, was I to be informed of treading
still in the valley of defeat?


"Am I to foster the opinion that you treat me thus on account of not
sharing so fully in your confidence as it may be, another?

"Or is it, can it be, imaginative that you have reluctantly shared, only
shared, with me that which I have bought and paid for fully?

"Can it be that your attention has ever been, or is still, attracted by
another, who, by some artifice or other, had the audacity to steal your
desire for me and hide it beneath his pillaged pillow of poverty, there
to conceal it until demanded with my ransom?
Wife! Woman! Do not sit in silence and allow the blood
that now boils in my veins to ooze through cavities of unrestrained
passion and trickle down to drench me with its crimson hue!




"Sir and husband," she said, with great nervousness at first, "you have
summoned me hither to lash your rebuke unmercifully upon me, provoked,
it may be, by underhand intercourse. You accordingly, in the course of
your remarks, fail not to tamper with a character which as yet defies
your scathing criticism. Only this week have I been made the recipient
of news concerning my deceased parents, of whom I never before obtained
the slightest clue, and armed with equality, I am in a position fit to
treat some of your stingy remarks with the scorn they merit.



"If my manner have changed in any way since our union, of it I am not
aware, and fail to be persuaded of any existing difference, only what
might be attributed to Lady Dilworth's sudden and unexpected removal
from our midst, which occasioned me grief indeed.

"It behoves elderly men like you to rule their wives with jealous
supervision, especially if the latter tread on the fields of youth. Such
is often fictitious and unfounded altogether, and should be treated with
marked silence.



"Relative to my affections, pray have those courted by me in the past
aught to do with the present existing state of affairs? I am fully
persuaded to answer, 'Nothing whatever.'

"You speak of your snowy tufts appearing where once there dwelt locks of
glossy jet. Well, I am convinced they never originated through me, and
must surely have been threatening to appear before taking the step which
links me with their origin.



The thickest stroke of sadness can be effaced in an instant, and
substituted with deeper traces of joy. The heart of honest ages, though
blackened at times with domestic troubles, rejoices when those troubles
are surmounted with blessings which proclaim future happiness.




The frantic father wrung his hands in a frenzy of momentary madness, and
in spite of authoritative advice he timidly moved in the direction of
the bed on which his beloved lay, and knelt beside it to fervently offer
up a prayer "for the speedy recovery of her who was the chief object of
his existence." Raising himself up and clasping his darling in his arms,
he whispered in her ear a word of encouragement, and gently laying her
highly-heated head on the silken pillow he again prayed, in deepest and
gravest earnestness, "that she might be spared only a little longer."


Ah! to be sure! It was during these days of unremitting attention that
he was afforded an opportunity of storing up a multitude of touchy
remarks uttered by his wife when the relapse of raging fever reached its
defiant height! She never ceased to talk in a most gentle manner of
"Oscar Otwell," "her darling and much-loved tutor." She even expressed
sorrow, in the course of her broken remarks, "at the false step she had
taken to satisfy, not herself by any means, but Lady Dilworth!" She
strongly protested her "hatred for him" who sat listening, with grave
intensity, to every word that escaped her lips! She even spoke of
"a cavity in her jewel-case in which was safely deposited a ring, given
her by Oscar during her happy period of instruction under his guidance,"
adding, in her painful discourse, that "she loved it as well as
himself," etc., etc.

These rambling statements when ended, in an instant caused Sir John's
resolutions, made by him so recently, to become worthless remarks; and
if partly charged with jealousy before, he was doubly so now.

No onlooker could fail in the least to pity the sneered husband, whose
livid countenance during the course of her remarks, rambling though they
were, was a sight never to be forgotten. How he gazed with astonished
indifference at the invalid so charged with deceit! She who acted the
emblem of innocence at all times, and attempted to attach entire blame
to her husband! She who partly promised peace in future to him who never
again could enjoy it!






When dreading the light of day contentment hath fled; imagination
oftentimes proves a forerunner to reality; corners of horror shelter
themselves within the castles of the queenly, the palaces of the
powerful, the monuments of the mighty, and the cottages of the
caretaker; but sunshine brings universal joy wherever its beams are wont
to dazzle, and often allays the anxiety which precedes its appearance.


"
    "Accept my warmest greeting, friendship, love,
    Thou art my charming Irene, pet and dove;
    Although another claims thee for a time,
    I trust to call you some day ever mine.
    Oh! pray for parting soon with fettered chains,
    To live and move regardless of those reins
    That bind your Christmas sprigs of worldly woe
    To him, whom you have hated long ago."


Who could then perceive the wan and haggard appearance of him who
apparently lay lifeless without being totally terror-stricken--could
she, whom he bathed in golden comfort, behold this outstretched form
with calm silence? Surely not!



Gradually regaining strength, and venturing in the doctor's absence out
of bed, he walked slowly into his wife's room to make personal his
recovery. He looked pale, and much annoyed, and could only with
difficulty refrain from acquainting her of what he had in store to
communicate. Each day found both invalids, just and unjust, rapidly
recovering, and a few weeks found both completely restored to health and
strength.


Ah! no matter in what light he viewed her conduct now he was brought to
loathe her very look, and was fully determined to shut her in from the
gaze of an outside world, or the cunning tricks of a trifling tutor. He
was resolved, so far as lay in his power, to treat her with the conduct
she merited, and never again allow himself to be persuaded to postpone
the visitation of his anger by her villainous pitiful appeals.




"The murderer had her stretched on this floor, and every article capable
of being removed piled upon her corpse. Horrified at such a sight, Sir
Sydney became wild with grief, and at once handed the pitiful lunatic
over to those in authority.

"The next inhabitant doomed to share in its dull delight was Kathleen,
wife of my beloved grandfather, a beautiful woman, whose portrait you
now see. She, I am sorry to relate, proved more an accomplice than the
honoured wife of him who added so much to the welfare of those who now
benefit by his great economy. The hand of death visited her here
likewise with its separating touch.



When left to herself in the ghostly and spacious closet of crippled
right, which until now she never dare approach, Lady Dunfern, instead of
shewing signs of grief, which Sir John felt assured must burst from its
midst, gloried in being aloof from the occasional rebukes to which she
was subject whilst occupying the rooms free to her access. She would now
have full opportunity of guiding her thoughts to self-advantage or
disadvantage. She felt free to try and act as she in any case would have
done, regarding very little the shame brought on her husband by her
intrigue with the tutor, whom she simply idolized, never once casting a
thought on her infant, knowing well it would be passionately cared for.

Oceans of thought took hold on her as she vacantly viewed the damp and
darkened walls of her monstrous cell, now and then moving forward to
inspect the many paintings of great and historic worth which hung from
their lofty support, mostly all more or less resembling him who probably
should ere long add to their number.


She longed for the hour of flight from the dismal shelter under which
she was doomed to dwell. She yearned for the days that had fled, and
more so for her who had shared in their pleasure. She pined for him whom
she so long lived to adore, and hesitated not to do so still.

Could she only acquaint him of her husband's cruelty, how he might
assist her in effecting her release. What could be done, she frequently
asked herself, to brighten her future only a little?

Could she possibly escape? She feared not.

Every two hours that villainous woman entered during the day since first
she was snared in the net of revenge and compelled to remain within its
enclosures of shivering fear. Still, she never lost hope of flight, and
cheered with the thought of future stratagem, she tried to remain
somewhat consoled.




The trickling tide of fortune sometimes ebbs slowly. It meets with
occasional barriers of boisterous worth, and reaches its haven of intent
too often with obstruction. Its waters drip on the proud and humble, the
mighty and pitiful, the meek and unholy, and refuse to overlook even the
weary and careworn confined in the cell. It ceases not to store within
its waters of wonder intricate windings of wealth and poverty, triumph
and torture, joy and misery, and does not hesitate at any time to safely
deposit its various burthens on the numerous beaches along which it must
pass.


Torture trifleth not. It manifests in many instances the deserving
censure imposed upon its stinging touch. It acts like the poisonous
fangs of the serpent, unless extracted from its burning crypt of
chastisement by hands of wily witchcraft. So frightened did Lady Dunfern
become lest the eye of the straggler might chance more than once to
catch the meaning of Marjory's loitering about the grounds immediately
below her window, that she deemed it imperative to alter her
arrangements, and, acquainting Marjory in the usual way, appointed an
hour that would almost defy matters to be made conspicuous. This change
made both of them more free to act, and proved a decided success.



It is astounding to view the smallest article through a magnifying
glass; how large and lustrous an atom of silver appears; how fat and
fair the withered finger seems; how monstrously mighty an orange; how
immeasurably great the football of youth; but these are as nought when
the naked eye beholds the boulder of barred strength--a mountain of
mystery.



The affections of youth never die. They live sometimes to lift the
drooping head, and help to chase sorrow from the heart of the oppressed.
If fostered unduly they generally prove to be more closely interwoven
than if retained through honesty alone, and fight the battle of union
with cannon strength until gained for good or evil.

A

The love dream of youth had hardly time to be told until the future
dream of wonder and dread was about to be prophesied. A couple of months
or so after Lady Dunfern took up her residence at Audley Hall found her
more a dependent than a patroness. She had recently fled from a dungeon,
still it was not one of either starvation or poverty. Whilst occupying
its darkened midst she never had any cause for complaint regarding food
or attendance, both of which could not possibly have been excelled. It
was only when staring her lover's scanty table fully that thoughts of
any nature, save cruelty, haunted her and caused a sad expression to
appear which before seemed invisible.

Oscar, who had no means whatever of a private nature, soon commenced to
feel the touch of want as well as Lady Dunfern. He had no situation,
neither had he the means to afford the homeliest fare, and although made
owner of his present habitation, yet it was only conditionally he
obtained it from his uncle. Must not the great love they naturally had
for each other have been of very superlative strength, since it bade
adieu to boundless wealth on the one hand and a comfortable allowance on
the other, to face the future with penniless pride!


The wealthy, the haughty, the noble must alike taste of disappointment.
They court ideas whilst surrounded with bountiful store to be fostered
and fed with heaven-bordered hopes which nothing save denial could
thwart. The meek, the humble, the poor share equally in its visitation,
and learn not to frown at its unwelcome intrusion while they bear the
load of blighted hopes with unshrinking modesty.





Hark! The bell tolled its death-like strains, faint as the far-off
fatherland, steady as the starlight, and sweet as the scent of the
blooming woodbine. The hour of departure is sure and settled, the loss
is sharply felt, the gain completed, and vigorous attempts to retain
both are oftentimes multiplying on the exertions of the benefitted.



Ah! it was now the actions of youthful frivolity stood before her
mountain high and baffled her sickly retort. It was now she pored over
her journal of events, which seemed a burthen unbearable for such a
fragile frame, and begged the credit side to be for ever closed to her
view, whilst she prayed that the debit be left open until she would
enter therein all her past debts to him whom she deceived, deluded,
denounced, and despised.



  "From what I know of your noble character, I have every faith in
  your forgiveness, and rest assured, I never mean to face death
  without imploring you to rectify, if ever in your power, the wrong
  you accomplished, partly at my request, in breaking the holy cord
  of union which bound you during your natural existence to Sir John
  Dunfern, and again uniting it under foul auspices.

  
There she was, a stranger in a foreign land--an outcast to the society
she shone so brilliantly amongst during years that were now no more, the
fostered orphan, the adopted daughter of heiressed nothing, the wife of
devotional distinction, the illegal partner of crutchy poverty, and the
penniless widow of undeniable woe.

She was not even granted the ghostly pleasure of viewing her lover's
lifeless body, that would have ended her thoughts relative to him, at
least for a time, but as matters stood encircled in doubt, there was
nothing left save trouble and anxiety for her whose futurity must ever
be shaded.

On approaching the harbour of New York, her attention was attracted by a



The mighty orb of gladness spreads its divine halo over many a harrowed
home--it encircles the great expanse of foreign adventure and
home-hoarded enterprise, and wields its awakening influence against the
burthened boroughs of bigotry and lightened land of liberty to a sense
of gilded surprise.


Next morning the Angel of Death was seen to spread its snowy wings over
his wasted form, and convey the departed spirit into that region of
bliss where sorrow, sighing, sin, and suffering are cast for ever from
its rooms of glory.

T


Mocking Angel! The trials of a tortured throng are naught when weighed
in the balance of future anticipations. The living sometimes learn the
touchy tricks of the traitor, the tardy, and the tempted; the dead have
evaded the flighty earthly future, and form to swell the retinue of
retired rights, the righteous school of the invisible, and the
rebellious roar of raging nothing.

The night was dark and tempestuous; the hill rather inclined to be
steep; the clouds were bathed in wrinkled furrows of vapoury smoke; the
traffic on the quiet and lonely roads surrounding Dunfern Mansion was
utterly stopped, and nature seemed a block of obstruction to the eye of
the foreigner who drudged so wearily up the slope that led to the home
of Mrs. Durand, who had been confined to bed for the past three years,
a sufferer from rheumatism.


The crushed hopes of an interview with the man she brought with head of
bowed and battered bruises, of blasted untruths and astounding actions,
to a grave of premature solitude were further crumbled to atoms in an
instant. They were driven beyond retention, never again to be fostered
with feverish fancy. After the deplorable news of her rightful husband's
death had been conveyed to the sly and shameless questioner, who tried
hard to balance her faintish frame unobserved, she asked an interview
with Sir Hugh Dunfern. This also was denied, on the ground of absence
from home.

Heavily laden with the garb of disappointment did the wandering woman of
wayward wrong retrace her footsteps from the door for ever, and
leisurely walked down the artistic avenue of carpeted care, never more
to face the furrowed frowns of friends who, in years gone by, bestowed
on her the praises of poetic powers. Forgetful almost of her present
movements, the dangerous signal of widowhood was seen to float along the
family graveyard of the Dunferns.

Being beforehand acquaint with the numerous and costly tombstones
erected individually, regardless of price, the wearied and sickly woman
of former healthy tread was not long in observing the latest tablet, of
towering height, at the north-east end of the sacred plot.

There seemed a touchy stream of gilded letters carefully cut on its
marble face, and on reading them with watery eye and stooping form, was
it anything remarkable that a flood of tears bathed the verdure that
peeped above the soil?

The lines were these:--


  The hand of death hath once more brought
    The lifeless body here to lie,
  Until aroused with angels' voice,
    Which call it forth, no more to die.


  This man, of health and honest mind,
    Had troubles great to bear whilst here,
  Which cut him off, in manhood's bloom,
    To where there's neither frown nor tear.


  His life was lined with works of good
    For all who sought his affluent aid;
  His life-long acts of charity
    Are sure to never pass unpaid.


  The wings of love and lasting strength
    Shall flap above his hollow bed;
  Angelic sounds of sweetest strain
    Have chased away all tears he shed.



  Then, when the glorious morn shall wake
    Each member in this dust of ours,
  To give to each the sentence sure
    Of everlasting Princely Power--



  He shall not fail to gain a seat
    Upon the bench of gloried right,
  To don the crown of golden worth
    Secured whilst braving Nature's fight.

After carefully reading these lines the figure of melting woe sat for a
long time in silence until a footstep came up from behind, which alarmed
her not a little. Looking up she beheld the face of a youth whose
expression was very mournful, and asking after her mission, was informed
she had been casting one last look on the monument of her lamented
husband.



"How darest thou set foot on the premises your chastity should have
protected and secured! What wind of transparent touch must have blown
its blasts of boldest bravery around your poisoned person and guided you
within miles of the mansion I proudly own?

"What spirit but that of evil used its influence upon you to dare to
bend your footsteps of foreign tread towards the door through which they
once stole unknown? Ah, woman of sin and stray companion of tutorism,
arise, I demand you, and strike across that grassy centre as quickly as
you can, and never more make your hated face appear within these mighty
walls. I can never own you; I can never call you mother; I cannot extend
the assistance your poor, poverty-stricken attire of false don silently
requests; neither can I ever meet you on this side the grave, before
which you so pityingly kneel!"




Hope sinks a world of imagination. It in almost every instance never
fails to arm the opponents of justice with weapons of friendly defence,
and gains their final fight with peaceful submission. Life is too often
stripped of its pleasantness by the steps of false assumption, marring
the true path of life-long happiness which should be pebbled with
principle, piety, purity, and peace.

N