Hmm. Qualified, qualified. Wow, what a question. Me, Crow T. Robot, what do I think. Am I qualified? That's a heavy burden. How can I make a difference? Can I make a difference? Huh. Surely I'm but a single bot, alone, as it were, 
in the vast universe thing. Maybe I can change the world. Perhaps I've looked at life from upside down. Hm. Hey Cambot, move it in a little, and cue that moody music. Hm, what would Joel do in a situation like this? No, no, no no no,
 I've got to learn to think for myself. To stand on my own two foot-like appendages. Seize the day, yeah. Think globally, act locally. Yes, by god, I can do it! Why, I could start a letter writing campaign. Yeah, that would help. And 
 I could organize a bake sale. Hey, we could all help! Come on, friends, run to your window and shout, “I'm really cheesed and I'm not gonna hang around 'til this thing gets better”! Organize an improv group and do guerrilla theater
  at the food court at your mall. Dress a little differently, make it more exciting for you and your spouse. Or, here's an idea- toss a little cajun spice into the party mix and watch the fun! Put on a one-man show and talk about your
   true inner feelings in an emotionally charged gut wrenching autobiographical account of your warped adolescence, and then watch the grant money come in, woo! But don't snap judge me. And then, I know, put a drop of vanilla behind
    each ear and you'll smell like a cookie all day! Or, uh, eat an apple, nature's toothbrush. Ask Mr. Owl how many licks it takes to get to the tootsie center. Um, met everyone on your block? Now would be a nice time to start, don't
     you think? Hmmmm? In the classroom, slide your desks together and create an ecology symbol. Um, police the lives of those around you and, uh, get your sensibilities way the heck out of whack. Parade up and down the street in your
      underwear. Impose your ideals on others- it's easy! Crush someone- an emotional word or enigmatic look. You decide! You do it! I'm sick of this! I can't make a decision! I'm no good at this sort of thing! It's up to you.
       I'm passing the buck. To you. And I've got commercial sign. Oh, the pain, the pain.

Is it that I often panic while making sandwiches? Is it that I smell conspiracy in everything and I don't know what I mean most of the time?

NEW YORK—According to a growing consensus of U.S. poets, shadows—inky sharp as a raven's beak—meet the sullen bloat of clouds, their hues a pallid loam, each a dancer, each alone, like dusty charcoal on an ashen brow.

Citing both the ageless gloom of morning and a weary sun, its astral luminescence wrapped in arid gauze, the nation's poets told reporters this week that doubt lingers in the frail minutes of a young dawn, adding that said doubt
 was a heathen doubt—a father's doubt—untouched by faith.

Multiple verse-writing sources also confirmed vapors, milky white vapors of shallow breath from a child's lips.

Enlarge Image"The dark tempest forms in the North / But what of Andrew?" a statement from the nation's poets read in part.

"I take the cloth of fog, I drape it over—gently, like a midwife—the memory of one broken holy Friday," poet K. Martin Echols said during a press conference Tuesday. "Hallowed be regret, and hallowed be my hands across the table 
where we ate, where we wept, where we fought the laws of bliss like lovers."

"For what is the sound of hope? For what is the mind's moment of fulfillment?" added poet Willow Marks. "For what is—?"

Coming just weeks after  U.S. poets announced that poplar leaves, heavy with the dread of autumn's looming song, danced in trembling half-step—one two one two—an overwhelming majority of verse writers affirmed to reporters Tuesday
 that Michael /Michael / there is a quickness in the dreaming of the bird, Michael / the bird that plucked your silver ring from the moss and kept it bright through passing storms.

In addition, a prostrate fir, felled                                       

                                    yet knowing

                        The weight of age, the burden of

Roots, nature's

                                    Broken vow, begged

                                                                for time like water, poetic sources confirmed.

"chastity (you who call yourselves chaste, adieu) streaming silken love me lines graceless through rough ears,

a language unknown,

a sound unheard,

a thought crying out

for new thoughts," poet harrison janie IV told reporters, emphasizing repeatedly that chastity chastity chastity chastity. "is this what is to be made of my chastity? a christmas wish? a torn dress? a sign that says 'no?' 
take me as an ideal woman,

not your idyll,

or take me as an idle man,

removed of chastity,

removed of hindered fuck,

removed."

While experts believe the nation's poets may make a statement on wisdom's supple strength of skin as early as late July, sources in the poetry community were quick to emphasize FIELDS....these are not            
                 FIELDS            we speak of, but stores of HOPE.

At press time, the nation's poets reiterated the "tyranny of I, when we are I unbound,

and unloved, deprives all. —cape cod, may 2012"
