
  I found in dreams a place of wind and flowers,
    Full of sweet trees and colour of glad grass,
    In midst whereof there was
  A lady clothed like summer with sweet hours.
  Her beauty, fervent as a fiery moon,
    Made my blood burn and swoon
      Like a flame rained upon.
  Sorrow had filled her shaken eyelids' blue,
  And her mouth's sad red heavy rose all through
      Seemed sad with glad things gone.

  She held a little cithern by the strings,
    Shaped heartwise, strung with subtle-coloured hair
    Of some dead lute-player
  That in dead years had done delicious things.
  The seven strings were named accordingly;
    The first string charity,
      The second tenderness,
  The rest were pleasure, sorrow, sleep, and sin,
  And loving-kindness, that is pity's kin
      And is most pitiless.

  There were three men with her, each garmented
    With gold and shod with gold upon the feet;
    And with plucked ears of wheat
  The first man's hair was wound upon his head:
  His face was red, and his mouth curled and sad;
    All his gold garment had
      Pale stains of dust and rust.
  A riven hood was pulled across his eyes;
  The token of him being upon this wise
      Made for a sign of Lust.

  The next was Shame, with hollow heavy face
    Coloured like green wood when flame kindles it.
    He hath such feeble feet
  They may not well endure in any place.
  His face was full of grey old miseries,
    And all his blood's increase
      Was even increase of pain.
  The last was Fear, that is akin to Death;
  He is Shame's friend, and always as Shame saith
      Fear answers him again.

  My soul said in me; This is marvellous,
    Seeing the air's face is not so delicate
    Nor the sun's grace so great,
  If sin and she be kin or amorous.
  And seeing where maidens served her on their knees,
    I bade one crave of these
      To know the cause thereof.
  Then Fear said: I am Pity that was dead.
  And Shame said: I am Sorrow comforted.
      And Lust said: I am Love.

  Thereat her hands began a lute-playing
    And her sweet mouth a song in a strange tongue;
    And all the while she sung
  There was no sound but long tears following
  Long tears upon men's faces, waxen white
    With extreme sad delight.
      But those three following men
  Became as men raised up among the dead;
  Great glad mouths open and fair cheeks made red
      With child's blood come again.

  Then I said: Now assuredly I see
    My lady is perfect, and transfigureth
    All sin and sorrow and death,
  Making them fair as her own eyelids be,
  Or lips wherein my whole soul's life abides;
    Or as her sweet white sides
      And bosom carved to kiss.
  Now therefore, if her pity further me,
  Doubtless for her sake all my days shall be
      As righteous as she is.

  Forth, ballad, and take roses in both arms,
    Even till the top rose touch thee in the throat
  Where the least thornprick harms;
    And girdled in thy golden singing-coat,
  Come thou before my lady and say this;
    Borgia, thy gold hair's colour burns in me,
      Thy mouth makes beat my blood in feverish rhymes;
    Therefore so many as these roses be,
      Kiss me so many times.
  Then it may be, seeing how sweet she is,
    That she will stoop herself none otherwise
      Than a blown vine-branch doth,
    And kiss thee with soft laughter on thine eyes,
      Ballad, and on thy mouth.

  Kneel down, fair Love, and fill thyself with tears,
  Girdle thyself with sighing for a girth
  Upon the sides of mirth,
  Cover thy lips and eyelids, let thine ears
  Be filled with rumour of people sorrowing;
  Make thee soft raiment out of woven sighs
  Upon the flesh to cleave,
  Set pains therein and many a grievous thing,
  And many sorrows after each his wise
  For armlet and for gorget and for sleeve.

  O Love's lute heard about the lands of death,
  Left hanged upon the trees that were therein;
  O Love and Time and Sin,
  Three singing mouths that mourn now underbreath,
  Three lovers, each one evil spoken of;
  O smitten lips wherethrough this voice of mine
  Came softer with her praise;
  Abide a little for our lady's love.
  The kisses of her mouth were more than wine,
  And more than peace the passage of her days.

  O Love, thou knowest if she were good to see.
  O Time, thou shalt not find in any land
  Till, cast out of thine hand,
  The sunlight and the moonlight fail from thee,
  Another woman fashioned like as this.
  O Sin, thou knowest that all thy shame in her
  Was made a goodly thing;
  Yea, she caught Shame and shamed him with her kiss,
  With her fair kiss, and lips much lovelier
  Than lips of amorous roses in late spring.

  By night there stood over against my bed
  Queen Venus with a hood striped gold and black,
  Both sides drawn fully back
  From brows wherein the sad blood failed of red,
  And temples drained of purple and full of death.
  Her curled hair had the wave of sea-water
  And the sea's gold in it.
  Her eyes were as a dove's that sickeneth.
  Strewn dust of gold she had shed over her,
  And pearl and purple and amber on her feet.

  Upon her raiment of dyed sendaline
  Were painted all the secret ways of love
  And covered things thereof,
  That hold delight as grape-flowers hold their wine;
  Red mouths of maidens and red feet of doves,
  And brides that kept within the bride-chamber
  Their garment of soft shame,
  And weeping faces of the wearied loves
  That swoon in sleep and awake wearier,
  With heat of lips and hair shed out like flame.

  The tears that through her eyelids fell on me
  Made mine own bitter where they ran between
  As blood had fallen therein,
  She saying; Arise, lift up thine eyes and see
  If any glad thing be or any good
  Now the best thing is taken forth of us;
  Even she to whom all praise
  Was as one flower in a great multitude,
  One glorious flower of many and glorious,
  One day found gracious among many days:

  Even she whose handmaiden was Love--to whom
  At kissing times across her stateliest bed
  Kings bowed themselves and shed
  Pale wine, and honey with the honeycomb,
  And spikenard bruised for a burnt-offering;
  Even she between whose lips the kiss became
  As fire and frankincense;
  Whose hair was as gold raiment on a king,
  Whose eyes were as the morning purged with flame,
  Whose eyelids as sweet savour issuing thence.

  Then I beheld, and lo on the other side
  My lady's likeness crowned and robed and dead.
  Sweet still, but now not red,
  Was the shut mouth whereby men lived and died.
  And sweet, but emptied of the blood's blue shade,
  The great curled eyelids that withheld her eyes.
  And sweet, but like spoilt gold,
  The weight of colour in her tresses weighed.
  And sweet, but as a vesture with new dyes,
  The body that was clothed with love of old.

  Ah! that my tears filled all her woven hair
  And all the hollow bosom of her gown--
  Ah! that my tears ran down
  Even to the place where many kisses were,
  Even where her parted breast-flowers have place,
  Even where they are cloven apart--who knows not this?
  Ah! the flowers cleave apart
  And their sweet fills the tender interspace;
  Ah! the leaves grown thereof were things to kiss
  Ere their fine gold was tarnished at the heart.

  Ah! in the days when God did good to me,
  Each part about her was a righteous thing;
  Her mouth an almsgiving,
  The glory of her garments charity,
  The beauty of her bosom a good deed,
  In the good days when God kept sight of us;
  Love lay upon her eyes,
  And on that hair whereof the world takes heed;
  And all her body was more virtuous
  Than souls of women fashioned otherwise.

  Now, ballad, gather poppies in thine hands
  And sheaves of brier and many rusted sheaves
  Rain-rotten in rank lands,
  Waste marigold and late unhappy leaves
  And grass that fades ere any of it be mown;
  And when thy bosom is filled full thereof
  Seek out Death's face ere the light altereth,
  And say "My master that was thrall to Love
  Is become thrall to Death."
  Bow down before him, ballad, sigh and groan,
  But make no sojourn in thy outgoing;
  For haply it may be
  That when thy feet return at evening
  Death shall come in with thee.



  Asleep or waking is it? for her neck,
  Kissed over close, wears yet a purple speck
    Wherein the pained blood falters and goes out;
  Soft, and stung softly--fairer for a fleck.

  But though my lips shut sucking on the place,
  There is no vein at work upon her face;
    Her eyelids are so peaceable, no doubt
  Deep sleep has warmed her blood through all its ways.

  Lo, this is she that was the world's delight;
  The old grey years were parcels of her might;
    The strewings of the ways wherein she trod
  Were the twain seasons of the day and night.

  Lo, she was thus when her clear limbs enticed
  All lips that now grow sad with kissing Christ,
    Stained with blood fallen from the feet of God,
  The feet and hands whereat our souls were priced.

  Alas, Lord, surely thou art great and fair.
  But lo her wonderfully woven hair!
    And thou didst heal us with thy piteous kiss;
  But see now, Lord; her mouth is lovelier.

  She is right fair; what hath she done to thee?
  Nay, fair Lord Christ, lift up thine eyes and see;
    Had now thy mother such a lip--like this?
  Thou knowest how sweet a thing it is to me.

  Inside the Horsel here the air is hot;
  Right little peace one hath for it, God wot;
    The scented dusty daylight burns the air,
  And my heart chokes me till I hear it not.

  Behold, my Venus, my soul's body, lies
  With my love laid upon her garment-wise,
    Feeling my love in all her limbs and hair
  And shed between her eyelids through her eyes.

  She holds my heart in her sweet open hands
  Hanging asleep; hard by her head there stands,
    Crowned with gilt thorns and clothed with flesh like fire,
  Love, wan as foam blown up the salt burnt sands--

  Hot as the brackish waifs of yellow spume
  That shift and steam--loose clots of arid fume
    From the sea's panting mouth of dry desire;
  There stands he, like one labouring at a loom.

  The warp holds fast across; and every thread
  That makes the woof up has dry specks of red;
    Always the shuttle cleaves clean through, and he
  Weaves with the hair of many a ruined head.

  Love is not glad nor sorry, as I deem;
  Labouring he dreams, and labours in the dream,
    Till when the spool is finished, lo I see
  His web, reeled off, curls and goes out like steam.

  Night falls like fire; the heavy lights run low,
  And as they drop, my blood and body so
    Shake as the flame shakes, full of days and hours
  That sleep not neither weep they as they go.

  Ah yet would God this flesh of mine might be
  Where air might wash and long leaves cover me,
    Where tides of grass break into foam of flowers,
  Or where the wind's feet shine along the sea.

  Ah yet would God that stems and roots were bred
  Out of my weary body and my head,
    That sleep were sealed upon me with a seal,
  And I were as the least of all his dead.

  Would God my blood were dew to feed the grass,
  Mine ears made deaf and mine eyes blind as glass,
    My body broken as a turning wheel,
  And my mouth stricken ere it saith Alas!

  Ah God, that love were as a flower or flame,
  That life were as the naming of a name,
    That death were not more pitiful than desire,
  That these things were not one thing and the same!

  Behold now, surely somewhere there is death:
  For each man hath some space of years, he saith,
    A little space of time ere time expire,
  A little day, a little way of breath.

  And lo, between the sundawn and the sun,
  His day's work and his night's work are undone;
    And lo, between the nightfall and the light,
  He is not, and none knoweth of such an one.

  Ah God, that I were as all souls that be,
  As any herb or leaf of any tree,
    As men that toil through hours of labouring night,
  As bones of men under the deep sharp sea.

  Outside it must be winter among men;
  For at the gold bars of the gates again
    I heard all night and all the hours of it
  The wind's wet wings and fingers drip with rain.

  Knights gather, riding sharp for cold; I know
  The ways and woods are strangled with the snow;
    And with short song the maidens spin and sit
  Until Christ's birthnight, lily-like, arow.

  The scent and shadow shed about me make
  The very soul in all my senses ache;
    The hot hard night is fed upon my breath,
  And sleep beholds me from afar awake.

  Alas, but surely where the hills grow deep,
  Or where the wild ways of the sea are steep,
    Or in strange places somewhere there is death,
  And on death's face the scattered hair of sleep.

  There lover-like with lips and limbs that meet
  They lie, they pluck sweet fruit of life and eat;
    But me the hot and hungry days devour,
  And in my mouth no fruit of theirs is sweet.

  No fruit of theirs, but fruit of my desire,
  For her love's sake whose lips through mine respire;
    Her eyelids on her eyes like flower on flower,
  Mine eyelids on mine eyes like fire on fire.

  So lie we, not as sleep that lies by death,
  With heavy kisses and with happy breath;
    Not as man lies by woman, when the bride
  Laughs low for love's sake and the words he saith.

  For she lies, laughing low with love; she lies
  And turns his kisses on her lips to sighs,
    To sighing sound of lips unsatisfied,
  And the sweet tears are tender with her eyes.

  Ah, not as they, but as the souls that were
  Slain in the old time, having found her fair;
    Who, sleeping with her lips upon their eyes,
  Heard sudden serpents hiss across her hair.

  Their blood runs round the roots of time like rain:
  She casts them forth and gathers them again;
    With nerve and bone she weaves and multiplies
  Exceeding pleasure out of extreme pain.

  Her little chambers drip with flower-like red,
  Her girdles, and the chaplets of her head,
    Her armlets and her anklets; with her feet
  She tramples all that winepress of the dead.

  Her gateways smoke with fume of flowers and fires,
  With loves burnt out and unassuaged desires;
    Between her lips the steam of them is sweet,
  The languor in her ears of many lyres.

  Her beds are full of perfume and sad sound,
  Her doors are made with music, and barred round
    With sighing and with laughter and with tears,
  With tears whereby strong souls of men are bound.

  There is the knight Adonis that was slain;
  With flesh and blood she chains him for a chain;
    The body and the spirit in her ears
  Cry, for her lips divide him vein by vein.

  Yea, all she slayeth; yea, every man save me;
  Me, love, thy lover that must cleave to thee
    Till the ending of the days and ways of earth,
  The shaking of the sources of the sea.

  Me, most forsaken of all souls that fell;
  Me, satiated with things insatiable;
    Me, for whose sake the extreme hell makes mirth,
  Yea, laughter kindles at the heart of hell.

  Alas thy beauty! for thy mouth's sweet sake
  My soul is bitter to me, my limbs quake
    As water, as the flesh of men that weep,
  As their heart's vein whose heart goes nigh to break.

  Ah God, that sleep with flower-sweet finger-tips
  Would crush the fruit of death upon my lips;
    Ah God, that death would tread the grapes of sleep
  And wring their juice upon me as it drips.

  There is no change of cheer for many days,
  But change of chimes high up in the air, that sways
    Rung by the running fingers of the wind;
  And singing sorrows heard on hidden ways.

  Day smiteth day in twain, night sundereth night,
  And on mine eyes the dark sits as the light;
    Yea, Lord, thou knowest I know not, having sinned,
  If heaven be clean or unclean in thy sight.

  Yea, as if earth were sprinkled over me,
  Such chafed harsh earth as chokes a sandy sea,
    Each pore doth yearn, and the dried blood thereof
  Gasps by sick fits, my heart swims heavily,

  There is a feverish famine in my veins;
  Below her bosom, where a crushed grape stains
    The white and blue, there my lips caught and clove
  An hour since, and what mark of me remains?

  I dare not always touch her, lest the kiss
  Leave my lips charred. Yea, Lord, a little bliss,
    Brief bitter bliss, one hath for a great sin;
  Nathless thou knowest how sweet a thing it is.

  Sin, is it sin whereby men's souls are thrust
  Into the pit? yet had I a good trust
    To save my soul before it slipped therein,
  Trod under by the fire-shod feet of lust.

  For if mine eyes fail and my soul takes breath,
  I look between the iron sides of death
    Into sad hell where all sweet love hath end,
  All but the pain that never finisheth.

  There are the naked faces of great kings,
  The singing folk with all their lute-playings;
    There when one cometh he shall have to friend
  The grave that covets and the worm that clings.

  There sit the knights that were so great of hand,
  The ladies that were queens of fair green land,
    Grown grey and black now, brought unto the dust,
  Soiled, without raiment, clad about with sand.

  There is one end for all of them; they sit
  Naked and sad, they drink the dregs of it,
    Trodden as grapes in the wine-press of lust.
  Trampled and trodden by the fiery feet.

  I see the marvellous mouth whereby there fell
  Cities and people whom the gods loved well,
    Yet for her sake on them the fire gat hold,
  And for their sakes on her the fire of hell.

  And softer than the Egyptian lote-leaf is,
  The queen whose face was worth the world to kiss,
    Wearing at breast a suckling snake of gold;
  And large pale lips of strong Semiramis,

  Curled like a tiger's that curl back to feed;
  Red only where the last kiss made them bleed;
    Her hair most thick with many a carven gem,
  Deep in the mane, great-chested, like a steed.

  Yea, with red sin the faces of them shine;
  But in all these there was no sin like mine;
    No, not in all the strange great sins of them
  That made the wine-press froth and foam with wine.

  For I was of Christ's choosing, I God's knight,
  No blinkard heathen stumbling for scant light;
    I can well see, for all the dusty days
  Gone past, the clean great time of goodly fight.

  I smell the breathing battle sharp with blows,
  With shriek of shafts and snapping short of bows;
    The fair pure sword smites out in subtle ways,
  Sounds and long lights are shed between the rows

  Of beautiful mailed men; the edged light slips,
  Most like a snake that takes short breath and dips
    Sharp from the beautifully bending head,
  With all its gracious body lithe as lips

  That curl in touching you; right in this wise
  My sword doth, seeming fire in mine own eyes,
    Leaving all colours in them brown and red
  And flecked with death; then the keen breaths like sighs,

  The caught-up choked dry laughters following them,
  When all the fighting face is grown a flame
    For pleasure, and the pulse that stuns the ears,
  And the heart's gladness of the goodly game.

  Let me think yet a little; I do know
  These things were sweet, but sweet such years ago,
    Their savour is all turned now into tears;
  Yea, ten years since, where the blue ripples blow,

  The blue curled eddies of the blowing Rhine,
  I felt the sharp wind shaking grass and vine
    Touch my blood too, and sting me with delight
  Through all this waste and weary body of mine

  That never feels clear air; right gladly then
  I rode alone, a great way off my men,
    And heard the chiming bridle smite and smite,
  And gave each rhyme thereof some rhyme again,

  Till my song shifted to that iron one;
  Seeing there rode up between me and the sun
    Some certain of my foe's men, for his three
  White wolves across their painted coats did run.

  The first red-bearded, with square cheeks--alack,
  I made my knave's blood turn his beard to black;
    The slaying of him was a joy to see:
  Perchance too, when at night he came not back,

  Some woman fell a-weeping, whom this thief
  Would beat when he had drunken; yet small grief
    Hath any for the ridding of such knaves;
  Yea, if one wept, I doubt her teen was brief.

  This bitter love is sorrow in all lands,
  Draining of eyelids, wringing of drenched hands,
    Sighing of hearts and filling up of graves;
  A sign across the head of the world he stands,

  An one that hath a plague-mark on his brows;
  Dust and spilt blood do track him to his house
    Down under earth; sweet smells of lip and cheek,
  Like a sweet snake's breath made more poisonous

  With chewing of some perfumed deadly grass,
  Are shed all round his passage if he pass,
    And their quenched savour leaves the whole soul weak,
  Sick with keen guessing whence the perfume was.

  As one who hidden in deep sedge and reeds
  Smells the rare scent made where a panther feeds,
    And tracking ever slotwise the warm smell
  Is snapped upon by the sweet mouth and bleeds,

  His head far down the hot sweet throat of her--
  So one tracks love, whose breath is deadlier,
    And lo, one springe and you are fast in hell,
  Fast as the gin's grip of a wayfarer.

  I think now, as the heavy hours decease
  One after one, and bitter thoughts increase
    One upon one, of all sweet finished things;
  The breaking of the battle; the long peace

  Wherein we sat clothed softly, each man's hair
  Crowned with green leaves beneath white hoods of vair;
    The sounds of sharp spears at great tourneyings,
  And noise of singing in the late sweet air.

  I sang of love too, knowing nought thereof;
  "Sweeter," I said, "the little laugh of love
    Than tears out of the eyes of Magdalen,
  Or any fallen feather of the Dove.

  "The broken little laugh that spoils a kiss,
  The ache of purple pulses, and the bliss
    Of blinded eyelids that expand again--
  Love draws them open with those lips of his,

  "Lips that cling hard till the kissed face has grown
  Of one same fire and colour with their own;
    Then ere one sleep, appeased with sacrifice,
  Where his lips wounded, there his lips atone."

  I sang these things long since and knew them not;
  "Lo, here is love, or there is love, God wot,
    This man and that finds favour in his eyes,"
  I said, "but I, what guerdon have I got?

  "The dust of praise that is blown everywhere
  In all men's faces with the common air;
    The bay-leaf that wants chafing to be sweet
  Before they wind it in a singer's hair."

  So that one dawn I rode forth sorrowing;
  I had no hope but of some evil thing,
    And so rode slowly past the windy wheat
  And past the vineyard and the water-spring,

  Up to the Horsel. A great elder-tree
  Held back its heaps of flowers to let me see
    The ripe tall grass, and one that walked therein,
  Naked, with hair shed over to the knee.

  She walked between the blossom and the grass;
  I knew the beauty of her, what she was,
    The beauty of her body and her sin,
  And in my flesh the sin of hers, alas!

  Alas! for sorrow is all the end of this.
  O sad kissed mouth, how sorrowful it is!
    O breast whereat some suckling sorrow clings,
  Red with the bitter blossom of a kiss!

  Ah, with blind lips I felt for you, and found
  About my neck your hands and hair enwound,
    The hands that stifle and the hair that stings,
  I felt them fasten sharply without sound.

  Yea, for my sin I had great store of bliss:
  Rise up, make answer for me, let thy kiss
    Seal my lips hard from speaking of my sin,
  Lest one go mad to hear how sweet it is.

  Yet I waxed faint with fume of barren bowers,
  And murmuring of the heavy-headed hours;
    And let the dove's beak fret and peck within
  My lips in vain, and Love shed fruitless flowers.

  So that God looked upon me when your hands
  Were hot about me; yea, God brake my bands
    To save my soul alive, and I came forth
  Like a man blind and naked in strange lands

  That hears men laugh and weep, and knows not whence
  Nor wherefore, but is broken in his sense;
    Howbeit I met folk riding from the north
  Towards Rome, to purge them of their souls' offence,

  And rode with them, and spake to none; the day
  Stunned me like lights upon some wizard way,
    And ate like fire mine eyes and mine eyesight;
  So rode I, hearing all these chant and pray,

  And marvelled; till before us rose and fell
  White cursed hills, like outer skirts of hell
    Seen where men's eyes look through the day to night,
  Like a jagged shell's lips, harsh, untunable,

  Blown in between by devils' wrangling breath;
  Nathless we won well past that hell and death,
    Down to the sweet land where all airs are good,
  Even unto Rome where God's grace tarrieth.

  Then came each man and worshipped at his knees
  Who in the Lord God's likeness bears the keys
    To bind or loose, and called on Christ's shed blood,
  And so the sweet-souled father gave him ease.

  But when I came I fell down at his feet,
  Saying, "Father, though the Lord's blood be right sweet,
    The spot it takes not off the panther's skin,
  Nor shall an Ethiop's stain be bleached with it.

  "Lo, I have sinned and have spat out at God,
  Wherefore his hand is heavier and his rod
    More sharp because of mine exceeding sin,
  And all his raiment redder than bright blood

  "Before mine eyes; yea, for my sake I wot
  The heat of hell is waxen seven times hot
    Through my great sin." Then spake he some sweet word,
  Giving me cheer; which thing availed me not;

  Yea, scarce I wist if such indeed were said;
  For when I ceased--lo, as one newly dead
    Who hears a great cry out of hell, I heard
  The crying of his voice across my head.

  "Until this dry shred staff, that hath no whit
  Of leaf nor bark, bear blossom and smell sweet,
    Seek thou not any mercy in God's sight,
  For so long shalt thou be cast out from it."

  Yea, what if dried-up stems wax red and green,
  Shall that thing be which is not nor has been?
    Yea, what if sapless bark wax green and white,
  Shall any good fruit grow upon my sin?

  Nay, though sweet fruit were plucked of a dry tree,
  And though men drew sweet waters of the sea,
    There should not grow sweet leaves on this dead stem,
  This waste wan body and shaken soul of me.

  Yea, though God search it warily enough,
  There is not one sound thing in all thereof;
    Though he search all my veins through, searching them
  He shall find nothing whole therein but love.

  For I came home right heavy, with small cheer,
  And lo my love, mine own soul's heart, more dear
    Than mine own soul, more beautiful than God,
  Who hath my being between the hands of her--

  Fair still, but fair for no man saving me,
  As when she came out of the naked sea
    Making the foam as fire whereon she trod,
  And as the inner flower of fire was she.

  Yea, she laid hold upon me, and her mouth
  Clove unto mine as soul to body doth,
    And, laughing, made her lips luxurious;
  Her hair had smells of all the sunburnt south,

  Strange spice and flower, strange savour of crushed fruit,
  And perfume the swart kings tread underfoot
    For pleasure when their minds wax amorous,
  Charred frankincense and grated sandal-root.

  And I forgot fear and all weary things,
  All ended prayers and perished thanksgivings,
    Feeling her face with all her eager hair
  Cleave to me, clinging as a fire that clings

  To the body and to the raiment, burning them;
  As after death I know that such-like flame
    Shall cleave to me for ever; yea, what care,
  Albeit I burn then, having felt the same?

  Ah love, there is no better life than this;
  To have known love, how bitter a thing it is,
    And afterward be cast out of God's sight;
  Yea, these that know not, shall they have such bliss

  High up in barren heaven before his face
  As we twain in the heavy-hearted place,
    Remembering love and all the dead delight,
  And all that time was sweet with for a space?

  For till the thunder in the trumpet be,
  Soul may divide from body, but not we
    One from another; I hold thee with my hand,
  I let mine eyes have all their will of thee,

  I seal myself upon thee with my might,
  Abiding alway out of all men's sight
    Until God loosen over sea and land
  The thunder of the trumpets of the night.



  O women, O sweet people of this land,
  O goodly city and pleasant ways thereof,
  And woods with pasturing grass and great well-heads,
  And hills with light and night between your leaves,
  And winds with sound and silence in your lips,
  And earth and water and all immortal things,
  I take you to my witness what I am.
  There is a god about me like as fire,
  Sprung whence, who knoweth, or who hath heart to say?
  A god more strong than whom slain beasts can soothe,
  Or honey, or any spilth of blood-like wine,
  Nor shall one please him with a whitened brow
  Nor wheat nor wool nor aught of plaited leaf.
  For like my mother am I stung and slain,
  And round my cheeks have such red malady
  And on my lips such fire and foam as hers.
  This is that Ate out of Amathus
  That breeds up death and gives it one for love.
  She hath slain mercy, and for dead mercy's sake
  (Being frighted with this sister that was slain)
  Flees from before her fearful-footed shame,
  And will not bear the bending of her brows
  And long soft arrows flown from under them
  As from bows bent. Desire flows out of her
  As out of lips doth speech: and over her
  Shines fire, and round her and beneath her fire.
  She hath sown pain and plague in all our house,
  Love loathed of love, and mates unmatchable,
  Wild wedlock, and the lusts that bleat or low,
  And marriage-fodder snuffed about of kine.
  Lo how the heifer runs with leaping flank
  Sleek under shaggy and speckled lies of hair,
  And chews a horrible lip, and with harsh tongue
  Laps alien froth and licks a loathlier mouth.
  Alas, a foul first steam of trodden tares,
  And fouler of these late grapes underfoot.
  A bitter way of waves and clean-cut foam
  Over the sad road of sonorous sea
  The high gods gave king Theseus for no love,
  Nay, but for love, yet to no loving end.
  Alas the long thwarts and the fervent oars,
  And blown hard sails that straightened the scant rope!
  There were no strong pools in the hollow sea
  To drag at them and suck down side and beak,
  No wind to catch them in the teeth and hair,
  No shoal, no shallow among the roaring reefs,
  No gulf whereout the straining tides throw spars,
  No surf where white bones twist like whirled white fire.
  But like to death he came with death, and sought
  And slew and spoiled and gat him that he would.
  For death, for marriage, and for child-getting,
  I set my curse against him as a sword;
  Yea, and the severed half thereof I leave
  Pittheus, because he slew not (when that face
  Was tender, and the life still soft in it)
  The small swathed child, but bred him for my fate.
  I would I had been the first that took her death
  Out from between wet hoofs and reddened teeth,
  Splashed horns, fierce fetlocks of the brother bull?
  For now shall I take death a deadlier way,
  Gathering it up between the feet of love
  Or off the knees of murder reaching it.

    

  Before our lives divide for ever,
    While time is with us and hands are free,
  (Time, swift to fasten and swift to sever
    Hand from hand, as we stand by the sea)
  I will say no word that a man might say
  Whose whole life's love goes down in a day;
  For this could never have been; and never,
    Though the gods and the years relent, shall be.

  Is it worth a tear, is it worth an hour,
    To think of things that are well outworn?
  Of fruitless husk and fugitive flower,
    The dream foregone and the deed forborne?
  Though joy be done with and grief be vain,
  Time shall not sever us wholly in twain;
  Earth is not spoilt for a single shower;
    But the rain has ruined the ungrown corn.

  It will grow not again, this fruit of my heart,
    Smitten with sunbeams, ruined with rain.
  The singing seasons divide and depart,
    Winter and summer depart in twain.
  It will grow not again, it is ruined at root,
  The bloodlike blossom, the dull red fruit;
  Though the heart yet sickens, the lips yet smart,
    With sullen savour of poisonous pain.

  I have given no man of my fruit to eat;
    I trod the grapes, I have drunken the wine.
  Had you eaten and drunken and found it sweet,
    This wild new growth of the corn and vine,
  This wine and bread without lees or leaven,
  We had grown as gods, as the gods in heaven,
  Souls fair to look upon, goodly to greet,
    One splendid spirit, your soul and mine.

  In the change of years, in the coil of things,
    In the clamour and rumour of life to be,
  We, drinking love at the furthest springs,
    Covered with love as a covering tree,
  We had grown as gods, as the gods above,
  Filled from the heart to the lips with love,
  Held fast in his hands, clothed warm with his wings,
    O love, my love, had you loved but me!

  We had stood as the sure stars stand, and moved
    As the moon moves, loving the world; and seen
  Grief collapse as a thing disproved,
    Death consume as a thing unclean.
  Twain halves of a perfect heart, made fast
  Soul to soul while the years fell past;
  Had you loved me once, as you have not loved;
    Had the chance been with us that has not been.

  I have put my days and dreams out of mind,
    Days that are over, dreams that are done.
  Though we seek life through, we shall surely find
    There is none of them clear to us now, not one.
  But clear are these things; the grass and the sand,
  Where, sure as the eyes reach, ever at hand,
  With lips wide open and face burnt blind,
    The strong sea-daisies feast on the sun.

  The low downs lean to the sea; the stream,
    One loose thin pulseless tremulous vein,
  Rapid and vivid and dumb as a dream,
    Works downward, sick of the sun and the rain;
  No wind is rough with the rank rare flowers;
  The sweet sea, mother of loves and hours,
  Shudders and shines as the grey winds gleam,
    Turning her smile to a fugitive pain.

  Mother of loves that are swift to fade,
    Mother of mutable winds and hours.
  A barren mother, a mother-maid,
    Cold and clean as her faint salt flowers.
  I would we twain were even as she,
  Lost in the night and the light of the sea,
  Where faint sounds falter and wan beams wade,
    Break, and are broken, and shed into showers.

  The loves and hours of the life of a man,
    They are swift and sad, being born of the sea.
  Hours that rejoice and regret for a span,
    Born with a man's breath, mortal as he;
  Loves that are lost ere they come to birth,
  Weeds of the wave, without fruit upon earth.
  I lose what I long for, save what I can,
    My love, my love, and no love for me!

  It is not much that a man can save
    On the sands of life, in the straits of time,
  Who swims in sight of the great third wave
    That never a swimmer shall cross or climb.
  Some waif washed up with the strays and spars
  That ebb-tide shows to the shore and the stars;
  Weed from the water, grass from a grave,
    A broken blossom, a ruined rhyme.

  There will no man do for your sake, I think,
    What I would have done for the least word said.
  I had wrung life dry for your lips to drink,
    Broken it up for your daily bread:
  Body for body and blood for blood,
  As the flow of the full sea risen to flood
  That yearns and trembles before it sink,
    I had given, and lain down for you, glad and dead.

  Yea, hope at highest and all her fruit,
    And time at fullest and all his dower,
  I had given you surely, and life to boot,
    Were we once made one for a single hour.
  But now, you are twain, you are cloven apart,
  Flesh of his flesh, but heart of my heart;
  And deep in one is the bitter root,
    And sweet for one is the lifelong flower.

  To have died if you cared I should die for you, clung
    To my life if you bade me, played my part
  As it pleased you--these were the thoughts that stung,
    The dreams that smote with a keener dart
  Than shafts of love or arrows of death;
  These were but as fire is, dust, or breath,
  Or poisonous foam on the tender tongue
    Of the little snakes that eat my heart.

  I wish we were dead together to-day,
    Lost sight of, hidden away out of sight,
  Clasped and clothed in the cloven clay,
    Out of the world's way, out of the light,
  Out of the ages of worldly weather,
  Forgotten of all men altogether,
  As the world's first dead, taken wholly away,
    Made one with death, filled full of the night.

  How we should slumber, how we should sleep,
    Far in the dark with the dreams and the dews!
  And dreaming, grow to each other, and weep,
    Laugh low, live softly, murmur and muse;
  Yea, and it may be, struck through by the dream,
  Feel the dust quicken and quiver, and seem
  Alive as of old to the lips, and leap
    Spirit to spirit as lovers use.

  Sick dreams and sad of a dull delight;
    For what shall it profit when men are dead
  To have dreamed, to have loved with the whole soul's might,
    To have looked for day when the day was fled?
  Let come what will, there is one thing worth,
  To have had fair love in the life upon earth:
  To have held love safe till the day grew night,
    While skies had colour and lips were red.

  Would I lose you now? would I take you then,
    If I lose you now that my heart has need?
  And come what may after death to men,
    What thing worth this will the dead years breed?
  Lose life, lose all; but at least I know,
  O sweet life's love, having loved you so,
  Had I reached you on earth, I should lose not again,
    In death nor life, nor in dream or deed.

  Yea, I know this well: were you once sealed mine,
    Mine in the blood's beat, mine in the breath,
  Mixed into me as honey in wine,
    Not time, that sayeth and gainsayeth,
  Nor all strong things had severed us then;
  Not wrath of gods, nor wisdom of men,
  Nor all things earthly, nor all divine,
    Nor joy nor sorrow, nor life nor death.

  I had grown pure as the dawn and the dew,
    You had grown strong as the sun or the sea.
  But none shall triumph a whole life through:
    For death is one, and the fates are three.
  At the door of life, by the gate of breath,
  There are worse things waiting for men than death;
  Death could not sever my soul and you,
    As these have severed your soul from me.

  You have chosen and clung to the chance they sent you,
    Life sweet as perfume and pure as prayer.
  But will it not one day in heaven repent you?
    Will they solace you wholly, the days that were?
  Will you lift up your eyes between sadness and bliss,
  Meet mine, and see where the great love is,
  And tremble and turn and be changed? Content you;
    The gate is strait; I shall not be there.

  But you, had you chosen, had you stretched hand,
    Had you seen good such a thing were done,
  I too might have stood with the souls that stand
    In the sun's sight, clothed with the light of the sun;
  But who now on earth need care how I live?
  Have the high gods anything left to give,
  Save dust and laurels and gold and sand?
    Which gifts are goodly; but I will none.

  O all fair lovers about the world,
    There is none of you, none, that shall comfort me.
  My thoughts are as dead things, wrecked and whirled
    Round and round in a gulf of the sea;
  And still, through the sound and the straining stream,
  Through the coil and chafe, they gleam in a dream,
  The bright fine lips so cruelly curled,
    And strange swift eyes where the soul sits free.

  Free, without pity, withheld from woe,
    Ignorant; fair as the eyes are fair.
  Would I have you change now, change at a blow,
    Startled and stricken, awake and aware?
  Yea, if I could, would I have you see
  My very love of you filling me,
  And know my soul to the quick, as I know
    The likeness and look of your throat and hair?

  I shall not change you. Nay, though I might,
    Would I change my sweet one love with a word?
  I had rather your hair should change in a night,
    Clear now as the plume of a black bright bird;
  Your face fail suddenly, cease, turn grey,
  Die as a leaf that dies in a day.
  I will keep my soul in a place out of sight,
    Far off, where the pulse of it is not heard.

  Far off it walks, in a bleak blown space,
    Full of the sound of the sorrow of years.
  I have woven a veil for the weeping face,
    Whose lips have drunken the wine of tears;
  I have found a way for the failing feet,
  A place for slumber and sorrow to meet;
  There is no rumour about the place,
    Nor light, nor any that sees or hears.

  I have hidden my soul out of sight, and said
    "Let none take pity upon thee, none
  Comfort thy crying: for lo, thou art dead,
    Lie still now, safe out of sight of the sun.
  Have I not built thee a grave, and wrought
  Thy grave-clothes on thee of grievous thought,
  With soft spun verses and tears unshed,
    And sweet light visions of things undone?

  "I have given thee garments and balm and myrrh,
    And gold, and beautiful burial things.
  But thou, be at peace now, make no stir;
    Is not thy grave as a royal king's?
  Fret not thyself though the end were sore;
  Sleep, be patient, vex me no more.
  Sleep; what hast thou to do with her?
    The eyes that weep, with the mouth that sings?"

  Where the dead red leaves of the years lie rotten,
    The cold old crimes and the deeds thrown by,
  The misconceived and the misbegotten,
    I would find a sin to do ere I die,
  Sure to dissolve and destroy me all through,
  That would set you higher in heaven, serve you
  And leave you happy, when clean forgotten,
    As a dead man out of mind, am I.

  Your lithe hands draw me, your face burns through me,
    I am swift to follow you, keen to see;
  But love lacks might to redeem or undo me;
    As I have been, I know I shall surely be;
  "What should such fellows as I do?" Nay,
  My part were worse if I chose to play;
  For the worst is this after all; if they knew me,
    Not a soul upon earth would pity me.

  And I play not for pity of these; but you,
    If you saw with your soul what man am I,
  You would praise me at least that my soul all through
    Clove to you, loathing the lives that lie;
  The souls and lips that are bought and sold,
  The smiles of silver and kisses of gold,
  The lapdog loves that whine as they chew,
    The little lovers that curse and cry.

  There are fairer women, I hear; that may be;
    But I, that I love you and find you fair,
  Who are more than fair in my eyes if they be,
    Do the high gods know or the great gods care?
  Though the swords in my heart for one were seven,
  Would the iron hollow of doubtful heaven,
  That knows not itself whether night-time or day be,
    Reverberate words and a foolish prayer?

  I will go back to the great sweet mother,
    Mother and lover of men, the sea.
  I will go down to her, I and none other,
    Close with her, kiss her and mix her with me;
  Cling to her, strive with her, hold her fast:
  O fair white mother, in days long past
  Born without sister, born without brother,
    Set free my soul as thy soul is free.

  O fair green-girdled mother of mine,
    Sea, that art clothed with the sun and the rain,
  Thy sweet hard kisses are strong like wine,
    Thy large embraces are keen like pain.
  Save me and hide me with all thy waves,
  Find me one grave of thy thousand graves,
  Those pure cold populous graves of thine
    Wrought without hand in a world without stain.

  I shall sleep, and move with the moving ships,
    Change as the winds change, veer in the tide;
  My lips will feast on the foam of thy lips,
    I shall rise with thy rising, with thee subside;
  Sleep, and not know if she be, if she were,
  Filled full with life to the eyes and hair,
  As a rose is fulfilled to the roseleaf tips
    With splendid summer and perfume and pride.

  This woven raiment of nights and days,
    Were it once cast off and unwound from me,
  Naked and glad would I walk in thy ways,
    Alive and aware of thy ways and thee;
  Clear of the whole world, hidden at home,
  Clothed with the green and crowned with the foam,
  A pulse of the life of thy straits and bays,
    A vein in the heart of the streams of the sea.

  Fair mother, fed with the lives of men,
    Thou art subtle and cruel of heart, men say.
  Thou hast taken, and shalt not render again;
    Thou art full of thy dead, and cold as they.
  But death is the worst that comes of thee;
  Thou art fed with our dead, O mother, O sea,
  But when hast thou fed on our hearts? or when,
    Having given us love, hast thou taken away?

  O tender-hearted, O perfect lover,
    Thy lips are bitter, and sweet thine heart.
  The hopes that hurt and the dreams that hover,
    Shall they not vanish away and apart?
  But thou, thou art sure, thou art older than earth;
  Thou art strong for death and fruitful of birth;
  Thy depths conceal and thy gulfs discover;
    From the first thou wert; in the end thou art.

  And grief shall endure not for ever, I know.
    As things that are not shall these things be;
  We shall live through seasons of sun and of snow,
    And none be grievous as this to me.
  We shall hear, as one in a trance that hears,
  The sound of time, the rhyme of the years;
  Wrecked hope and passionate pain will grow
    As tender things of a spring-tide sea.

  Sea-fruit that swings in the waves that hiss,
    Drowned gold and purple and royal rings.
  And all time past, was it all for this?
    Times unforgotten, and treasures of things?
  Swift years of liking and sweet long laughter,
  That wist not well of the years thereafter
  Till love woke, smitten at heart by a kiss,
    With lips that trembled and trailing wings?

  There lived a singer in France of old
    By the tideless dolorous midland sea.
  In a land of sand and ruin and gold
    There shone one woman, and none but she.
  And finding life for her love's sake fail,
  Being fain to see her, he bade set sail,
  Touched land, and saw her as life grew cold,
    And praised God, seeing; and so died he.

  Died, praising God for his gift and grace:
    For she bowed down to him weeping, and said
  "Live;" and her tears were shed on his face
    Or ever the life in his face was shed.
  The sharp tears fell through her hair, and stung
  Once, and her close lips touched him and clung
  Once, and grew one with his lips for a space;
    And so drew back, and the man was dead.

  O brother, the gods were good to you.
    Sleep, and be glad while the world endures.
  Be well content as the years wear through;
    Give thanks for life, and the loves and lures;
  Give thanks for life, O brother, and death,
  For the sweet last sound of her feet, her breath,
  For gifts she gave you, gracious and few,
    Tears and kisses, that lady of yours.

  Rest, and be glad of the gods; but I,
    How shall I praise them, or how take rest?
  There is not room under all the sky
    For me that know not of worst or best,
  Dream or desire of the days before,
  Sweet things or bitterness, any more.
  Love will not come to me now though I die,
    As love came close to you, breast to breast.

  I shall never be friends again with roses;
    I shall loathe sweet tunes, where a note grown strong
  Relents and recoils, and climbs and closes,
    As a wave of the sea turned back by song.
  There are sounds where the soul's delight takes fire,
  Face to face with its own desire;
  A delight that rebels, a desire that reposes;
   I shall hate sweet music my whole life long.

  The pulse of war and passion of wonder,
   The heavens that murmur, the sounds that shine,
  The stars that sing and the loves that thunder,
   The music burning at heart like wine,
  An armed archangel whose hands raise up
  All senses mixed in the spirit's cup
  Till flesh and spirit are molten in sunder--
    These things are over, and no more mine.

  These were a part of the playing I heard
    Once, ere my love and my heart were at strife;
  Love that sings and hath wings as a bird,
    Balm of the wound and heft of the knife.
  Fairer than earth is the sea, and sleep
  Than overwatching of eyes that weep,
  Now time has done with his one sweet word,
    The wine and leaven of lovely life.

  I shall go my ways, tread out my measure,
    Fill the days of my daily breath
  With fugitive things not good to treasure,
    Do as the world doth, say as it saith;
  But if we had loved each other--O sweet,
  Had you felt, lying under the palms of your feet,
  The heart of my heart, beating harder with pleasure
    To feel you tread it to dust and death--

  Ah, had I not taken my life up and given
    All that life gives and the years let go,
  The wine and honey, the balm and leaven,
    The dreams reared high and the hopes brought low?
  Come life, come death, not a word be said;
  Should I lose you living, and vex you dead?
  I never shall tell you on earth; and in heaven,
    If I cry to you then, will you hear or know?


  Whatever a man of the sons of men
    Shall say to his heart of the lords above,
  They have shown man verily, once and again,
    Marvellous mercies and infinite love.

  In the wild fifth year of the change of things,
    When France was glorious and blood-red, fair
  With dust of battle and deaths of kings,
    A queen of men, with helmeted hair,

  Carrier came down to the Loire and slew,
    Till all the ways and the waves waxed red:
  Bound and drowned, slaying two by two,
    Maidens and young men, naked and wed.

  They brought on a day to his judgment-place
    One rough with labour and red with fight,
  And a lady noble by name and face,
    Faultless, a maiden, wonderful, white.

  She knew not, being for shame's sake blind,
    If his eyes were hot on her face hard by.
  And the judge bade strip and ship them, and bind
    Bosom to bosom, to drown and die.

  The white girl winced and whitened; but he
    Caught fire, waxed bright as a great bright flame
  Seen with thunder far out on the sea,
    Laughed hard as the glad blood went and came.

  Twice his lips quailed with delight, then said,
    "I have but a word to you all, one word;
  Bear with me; surely I am but dead;"
    And all they laughed and mocked him and heard.

  "Judge, when they open the judgment-roll,
    I will stand upright before God and pray:
  'Lord God, have mercy on one man's soul,
    For his mercy was great upon earth, I say.

  "'Lord, if I loved thee--Lord, if I served--
    If these who darkened thy fair Son's face
  I fought with, sparing not one, nor swerved
    A hand's-breadth, Lord, in the perilous place--

  "'I pray thee say to this man, O Lord,
    _Sit thou for him at my feet on a throne_.
  I will face thy wrath, though it bite as a sword,
    And my soul shall burn for his soul, and atone.

  "'For, Lord, thou knowest, O God most wise,
    How gracious on earth were his deeds towards me.
  Shall this be a small thing in thine eyes,
    That is greater in mine than the whole great sea?'

  "I have loved this woman my whole life long,
    And even for love's sake when have I said
  'I love you'? when have I done you wrong,
    Living? but now I shall have you dead.

  "Yea, now, do I bid you love me, love?
    Love me or loathe, we are one not twain.
  But God be praised in his heaven above
    For this my pleasure and that my pain!

  "For never a man, being mean like me,
    Shall die like me till the whole world dies.
  I shall drown with her, laughing for love; and she
    Mix with me, touching me, lips and eyes.

  "Shall she not know me and see me all through,
    Me, on whose heart as a worm she trod?
  You have given me, God requite it you,
    What man yet never was given of God."

  O sweet one love, O my life's delight,
    Dear, though the days have divided us,
  Lost beyond hope, taken far out of sight,
    Not twice in the world shall the gods do thus.

  Had it been so hard for my love? but I,
    Though the gods gave all that a god can give,
  I had chosen rather the gift to die,
    Cease, and be glad above all that live.

  For the Loire would have driven us down to the sea,
    And the sea would have pitched us from shoal to shoal;
  And I should have held you, and you held me,
    As flesh holds flesh, and the soul the soul.

  Could I change you, help you to love me, sweet,
    Could I give you the love that would sweeten death,
  We should yield, go down, locked hands and feet,
    Die, drown together, and breath catch breath;

  But you would have felt my soul in a kiss,
    And known that once if I loved you well;
  And I would have given my soul for this
    To burn for ever in burning hell.



  Let us go hence, my songs; she will not hear.
  Let us go hence together without fear;
  Keep silence now, for singing-time is over,
  And over all old things and all things dear.
  She loves not you nor me as all we love her.
  Yea, though we sang as angels in her ear,
        She would not hear.

  Let us rise up and part; she will not know.
  Let us go seaward as the great winds go,
  Full of blown sand and foam; what help is here?
  There is no help, for all these things are so,
  And all the world is bitter as a tear.
  And how these things are, though ye strove to show,
        She would not know.

  Let us go home and hence; she will not weep.
  We gave love many dreams and days to keep,
  Flowers without scent, and fruits that would not grow,
  Saying 'If thou wilt, thrust in thy sickle and reap.'
  All is reaped now; no grass is left to mow;
  And we that sowed, though all we fell on sleep,
        She would not weep.

  Let us go hence and rest; she will not love.
  She shall not hear us if we sing hereof,
  Nor see love's ways, how sore they are and steep.
  Come hence, let be, lie still; it is enough.
  Love is a barren sea, bitter and deep;
  And though she saw all heaven in flower above,
        She would not love.

  Let us give up, go down; she will not care.
  Though all the stars made gold of all the air,
  And the sea moving saw before it move
  One moon-flower making all the foam-flowers fair;
  Though all those waves went over us, and drove
  Deep down the stifling lips and drowning hair,
        She would not care.

  Let us go hence, go hence; she will not see.
  Sing all once more together; surely she,
  She too, remembering days and words that were,
  Will turn a little toward us, sighing; but we,
  We are hence, we are gone, as though we had not been there.
  Nay, and though all men seeing had pity on me,
        She would not see.




  Swallow, my sister, O sister swallow,
    How can thine heart be full of the spring?
      A thousand summers are over and dead.
  What hast thou found in the spring to follow?
    What hast thou found in thine heart to sing?
      What wilt thou do when the summer is shed?

  O swallow, sister, O fair swift swallow,
    Why wilt thou fly after spring to the south,
      The soft south whither thine heart is set?
  Shall not the grief of the old time follow?
    Shall not the song thereof cleave to thy mouth?
      Hast thou forgotten ere I forget?

  Sister, my sister, O fleet sweet swallow,
    Thy way is long to the sun and the south;
      But I, fulfilled of my heart's desire,
  Shedding my song upon height, upon hollow,
    From tawny body and sweet small mouth
      Feed the heart of the night with fire.

  I the nightingale all spring through,
    O swallow, sister, O changing swallow,
      All spring through till the spring be done,
  Clothed with the light of the night on the dew,
    Sing, while the hours and the wild birds follow,
      Take flight and follow and find the sun.

  Sister, my sister, O soft light swallow,
    Though all things feast in the spring's guest-chamber,
      How hast thou heart to be glad thereof yet?
  For where thou fliest I shall not follow,
    Till life forget and death remember,
      Till thou remember and I forget.

  Swallow, my sister, O singing swallow,
    I know not how thou hast heart to sing.
      Hast thou the heart? is it all past over?
  Thy lord the summer is good to follow,
    And fair the feet of thy lover the spring:
      But what wilt thou say to the spring thy lover?

  O swallow, sister, O fleeting swallow,
    My heart in me is a molten ember
      And over my head the waves have met.
  But thou wouldst tarry or I would follow,
    Could I forget or thou remember,
      Couldst thou remember and I forget.

  O sweet stray sister, O shifting swallow,
    The heart's division divideth us.
      Thy heart is light as a leaf of a tree;
  But mine goes forth among sea-gulfs hollow
    To the place of the slaying of Itylus,
      The feast of Daulis, the Thracian sea.

  O swallow, sister, O rapid swallow,
    I pray thee sing not a little space.
      Are not the roofs and the lintels wet?
  The woven web that was plain to follow,
    The small slain body, the flowerlike face,
      Can I remember if thou forget?

  O sister, sister, thy first-begotten!
    The hands that cling and the feet that follow,
      The voice of the child's blood crying yet
  _Who hath remembered me? who hath forgotten?_
    Thou hast forgotten, O summer swallow,
      But the world shall end when I forget.





  My life is bitter with thy love; thine eyes
  Blind me, thy tresses burn me, thy sharp sighs
  Divide my flesh and spirit with soft sound,
  And my blood strengthens, and my veins abound.
  I pray thee sigh not, speak not, draw not breath;
  Let life burn down, and dream it is not death.
  I would the sea had hidden us, the fire
  (Wilt thou fear that, and fear not my desire?)
  Severed the bones that bleach, the flesh that cleaves,
  And let our sifted ashes drop like leaves.
  I feel thy blood against my blood: my pain
  Pains thee, and lips bruise lips, and vein stings vein.
  Let fruit be crushed on fruit, let flower on flower,
  Breast kindle breast, and either burn one hour.
  Why wilt thou follow lesser loves? are thine
  Too weak to bear these hands and lips of mine?
  I charge thee for my life's sake, O too sweet
  To crush love with thy cruel faultless feet,
  I charge thee keep thy lips from hers or his,
  Sweetest, till theirs be sweeter than my kiss.
  Lest I too lure, a swallow for a dove,
  Erotion or Erinna to my love.
  I would my love could kill thee; I am satiated
  With seeing thee live, and fain would have thee dead.
  I would earth had thy body as fruit to eat,
  And no mouth but some serpent's found thee sweet.
  I would find grievous ways to have thee slain,
  Intense device, and superflux of pain;
  Vex thee with amorous agonies, and shake
  Life at thy lips, and leave it there to ache;
  Strain out thy soul with pangs too soft to kill,
  Intolerable interludes, and infinite ill;
  Relapse and reluctation of the breath,
  Dumb tunes and shuddering semitones of death.
  I am weary of all thy words and soft strange ways,
  Of all love's fiery nights and all his days,
  And all the broken kisses salt as brine
  That shuddering lips make moist with waterish wine,
  And eyes the bluer for all those hidden hours
  That pleasure fills with tears and feeds from flowers,
  Fierce at the heart with fire that half comes through,
  But all the flowerlike white stained round with blue;
  The fervent underlid, and that above
  Lifted with laughter or abashed with love;
  Thine amorous girdle, full of thee and fair,
  And leavings of the lilies in thine hair.
  Yea, all sweet words of thine and all thy ways,
  And all the fruit of nights and flower of days,
  And stinging lips wherein the hot sweet brine
  That Love was born of burns and foams like wine,
  And eyes insatiable of amorous hours,
  Fervent as fire and delicate as flowers,
  Coloured like night at heart, but cloven through
  Like night with flame, dyed round like night with blue,
  Clothed with deep eyelids under and above--
  Yea, all thy beauty sickens me with love;
  Thy girdle empty of thee and now not fair,
  And ruinous lilies in thy languid hair.
  Ah, take no thought for Love's sake; shall this be,
  And she who loves thy lover not love thee?
  Sweet soul, sweet mouth of all that laughs and lives,
  Mine is she, very mine; and she forgives.
  For I beheld in sleep the light that is
  In her high place in Paphos, heard the kiss
  Of body and soul that mix with eager tears
  And laughter stinging through the eyes and ears;
  Saw Love, as burning flame from crown to feet,
  Imperishable, upon her storied seat;
  Clear eyelids lifted toward the north and south,
  A mind of many colours, and a mouth
  Of many tunes and kisses; and she bowed,
  With all her subtle face laughing aloud,
  Bowed down upon me, saying, "Who doth thee wrong,
  Sappho?" but thou--thy body is the song,
  Thy mouth the music; thou art more than I,
  Though my voice die not till the whole world die;
  Though men that hear it madden; though love weep,
  Though nature change, though shame be charmed to sleep.
  Ah, wilt thou slay me lest I kiss thee dead?
  Yet the queen laughed from her sweet heart and said:
  "Even she that flies shall follow for thy sake,
  And she shall give thee gifts that would not take,
  Shall kiss that would not kiss thee" (yea, kiss me)
  "When thou wouldst not"--when I would not kiss thee!
  Ah, more to me than all men as thou art,
  Shall not my songs assuage her at the heart?
  Ah, sweet to me as life seems sweet to death,
  Why should her wrath fill thee with fearful breath?
  Nay, sweet, for is she God alone? hath she
  Made earth and all the centuries of the sea,
  Taught the sun ways to travel, woven most fine
  The moonbeams, shed the starbeams forth as wine,
  Bound with her myrtles, beaten with her rods,
  The young men and the maidens and the gods?
  Have we not lips to love with, eyes for tears,
  And summer and flower of women and of years?
  Stars for the foot of morning, and for noon
  Sunlight, and exaltation of the moon;
  Waters that answer waters, fields that wear
  Lilies, and languor of the Lesbian air?
  Beyond those flying feet of fluttered doves,
  Are there not other gods for other loves?
  Yea, though she scourge thee, sweetest, for my sake,
  Blossom not thorns and flowers not blood should break.
  Ah that my lips were tuneless lips, but pressed
  To the bruised blossom of thy scourged white breast!
  Ah that my mouth for Muses' milk were fed
  On the sweet blood thy sweet small wounds had bled!
  That with my tongue I felt them, and could taste
  The faint flakes from thy bosom to the waist!
  That I could drink thy veins as wine, and eat
  Thy breasts like honey! that from face to feet
  Thy body were abolished and consumed,
  And in my flesh thy very flesh entombed!
  Ah, ah, thy beauty! like a beast it bites,
  Stings like an adder, like an arrow smites.
  Ah sweet, and sweet again, and seven times sweet,
  The paces and the pauses of thy feet!
  Ah sweeter than all sleep or summer air
  The fallen fillets fragrant from thine hair!
  Yea, though their alien kisses do me wrong,
  Sweeter thy lips than mine with all their song;
  Thy shoulders whiter than a fleece of white,
  And flower-sweet fingers, good to bruise or bite
  As honeycomb of the inmost honey-cells,
  With almond-shaped and roseleaf-coloured shells
  And blood like purple blossom at the tips
  Quivering; and pain made perfect in thy lips
  For my sake when I hurt thee; O that I
  Durst crush thee out of life with love, and die,
  Die of thy pain and my delight, and be
  Mixed with thy blood and molten into thee!
  Would I not plague thee dying overmuch?
  Would I not hurt thee perfectly? not touch
  Thy pores of sense with torture, and make bright
  Thine eyes with bloodlike tears and grievous light?
  Strike pang from pang as note is struck from note,
  Catch the sob's middle music in thy throat,
  Take thy limbs living, and new-mould with these
  A lyre of many faultless agonies?
  Feed thee with fever and famine and fine drouth,
  With perfect pangs convulse thy perfect mouth,
  Make thy life shudder in thee and burn afresh,
  And wring thy very spirit through the flesh?
  Cruel? but love makes all that love him well
  As wise as heaven and crueller than hell.
  Me hath love made more bitter toward thee
  Than death toward man; but were I made as he
  Who hath made all things to break them one by one,
  If my feet trod upon the stars and sun
  And souls of men as his have alway trod,
  God knows I might be crueller than God.
  For who shall change with prayers or thanksgivings
  The mystery of the cruelty of things?
  Or say what God above all gods and years
  With offering and blood-sacrifice of tears,
  With lamentation from strange lands, from graves
  Where the snake pastures, from scarred mouths of slaves,
  From prison, and from plunging prows of ships
  Through flamelike foam of the sea's closing lips--
  With thwartings of strange signs, and wind-blown hair
  Of comets, desolating the dim air,
  When darkness is made fast with seals and bars,
  And fierce reluctance of disastrous stars,
  Eclipse, and sound of shaken hills, and wings
  Darkening, and blind inexpiable things--
  With sorrow of labouring moons, and altering light
  And travail of the planets of the night,
  And weeping of the weary Pleiads seven,
  Feeds the mute melancholy lust of heaven?
  Is not his incense bitterness, his meat
  Murder? his hidden face and iron feet
  Hath not man known, and felt them on their way
  Threaten and trample all things and every day?
  Hath he not sent us hunger? who hath cursed
  Spirit and flesh with longing? filled with thirst
  Their lips who cried unto him? who bade exceed
  The fervid will, fall short the feeble deed,
  Bade sink the spirit and the flesh aspire,
  Pain animate the dust of dead desire,
  And life yield up her flower to violent fate?
  Him would I reach, him smite, him desecrate,
  Pierce the cold lips of God with human breath,
  And mix his immortality with death.
  Why hath he made us? what had all we done
  That we should live and loathe the sterile sun,
  And with the moon wax paler as she wanes,
  And pulse by pulse feel time grow through our veins?
  Thee too the years shall cover; thou shalt be
  As the rose born of one same blood with thee,
  As a song sung, as a word said, and fall
  Flower-wise, and be not any more at all,
  Nor any memory of thee anywhere;
  For never Muse has bound above thine hair
  The high Pierian flower whose graft outgrows
  All summer kinship of the mortal rose
  And colour of deciduous days, nor shed
  Reflex and flush of heaven about thine head,
  Nor reddened brows made pale by floral grief
  With splendid shadow from that lordlier leaf.
  Yea, thou shalt be forgotten like spilt wine,
  Except these kisses of my lips on thine
  Brand them with immortality; but me--
  Men shall not see bright fire nor hear the sea,
  Nor mix their hearts with music, nor behold
  Cast forth of heaven, with feet of awful gold
  And plumeless wings that make the bright air blind,
  Lightning, with thunder for a hound behind
  Hunting through fields unfurrowed and unsown,
  But in the light and laughter, in the moan
  And music, and in grasp of lip and hand
  And shudder of water that makes felt on land
  The immeasurable tremor of all the sea,
  Memories shall mix and metaphors of me.
  Like me shall be the shuddering calm of night,
  When all the winds of the world for pure delight
  Close lips that quiver and fold up wings that ache;
  When nightingales are louder for love's sake,
  And leaves tremble like lute-strings or like fire;
  Like me the one star swooning with desire
  Even at the cold lips of the sleepless moon,
  As I at thine; like me the waste white noon,
  Burnt through with barren sunlight; and like me
  The land-stream and the tide-stream in the sea.
  I am sick with time as these with ebb and flow,
  And by the yearning in my veins I know
  The yearning sound of waters; and mine eyes
  Burn as that beamless fire which fills the skies
  With troubled stars and travailing things of flame;
  And in my heart the grief consuming them
  Labours, and in my veins the thirst of these,
  And all the summer travail of the trees
  And all the winter sickness; and the earth,
  Filled full with deadly works of death and birth,
  Sore spent with hungry lusts of birth and death,
  Has pain like mine in her divided breath;
  Her spring of leaves is barren, and her fruit
  Ashes; her boughs are burdened, and her root
  Fibrous and gnarled with poison; underneath
  Serpents have gnawn it through with tortuous teeth
  Made sharp upon the bones of all the dead,
  And wild birds rend her branches overhead.
  These, woven as raiment for his word and thought,
  These hath God made, and me as these, and wrought
  Song, and hath lit it at my lips; and me
  Earth shall not gather though she feed on thee.
  As a shed tear shalt thou be shed; but I--
  Lo, earth may labour, men live long and die,
  Years change and stars, and the high God devise
  New things, and old things wane before his eyes
  Who wields and wrecks them, being more strong than they--
  But, having made me, me he shall not slay.
  Nor slay nor satiate, like those herds of his
  Who laugh and live a little, and their kiss
  Contents them, and their loves are swift and sweet,
  And sure death grasps and gains them with slow feet,
  Love they or hate they, strive or bow their knees--
  And all these end; he hath his will of these.
  Yea, but albeit he slay me, hating me--
  Albeit he hide me in the deep dear sea
  And cover me with cool wan foam, and ease
  This soul of mine as any soul of these,
  And give me water and great sweet waves, and make
  The very sea's name lordlier for my sake,
  The whole sea sweeter--albeit I die indeed
  And hide myself and sleep and no man heed,
  Of me the high God hath not all his will.
  Blossom of branches, and on each high hill
  Clear air and wind, and under in clamorous vales
  Fierce noises of the fiery nightingales,
  Buds burning in the sudden spring like fire,
  The wan washed sand and the waves' vain desire,
  Sails seen like blown white flowers at sea, and words
  That bring tears swiftest, and long notes of birds
  Violently singing till the whole world sings--
  I Sappho shall be one with all these things,
  With all high things for ever; and my face
  Seen once, my songs once heard in a strange place,
  Cleave to men's lives, and waste the days thereof
  With gladness and much sadness and long love.
  Yea, they shall say, earth's womb has borne in vain
  New things, and never this best thing again;
  Borne days and men, borne fruits and wars and wine,
  Seasons and songs, but no song more like mine.
  And they shall know me as ye who have known me here,
  Last year when I loved Atthis, and this year
  When I love thee; and they shall praise me, and say
  "She hath all time as all we have our day,
  Shall she not live and have her will"--even I?
  Yea, though thou diest, I say I shall not die.
  For these shall give me of their souls, shall give
  Life, and the days and loves wherewith I live,
  Shall quicken me with loving, fill with breath,
  Save me and serve me, strive for me with death.
  Alas, that neither moon nor snow nor dew
  Nor all cold things can purge me wholly through,
  Assuage me nor allay me nor appease,
  Till supreme sleep shall bring me bloodless ease;
  Till time wax faint in all his periods;
  Till fate undo the bondage of the gods,
  And lay, to slake and satiate me all through,
  Lotus and Lethe on my lips like dew,
  And shed around and over and under me
  Thick darkness and the insuperable sea.




  I have lived long enough, having seen one thing, that love hath an
      end;
  Goddess and maiden and queen, be near me now and befriend.
  Thou art more than the day or the morrow, the seasons that laugh or
      that weep;
  For these give joy and sorrow; but thou, Proserpina, sleep.
  Sweet is the treading of wine, and sweet the feet of the dove;
  But a goodlier gift is thine than foam of the grapes or love.
  Yea, is not even Apollo, with hair and harpstring of gold,
  A bitter God to follow, a beautiful God to behold?
  I am sick of singing: the bays burn deep and chafe: I am fain
  To rest a little from praise and grievous pleasure and pain.
  For the Gods we know not of, who give us our daily breath,
  We know they are cruel as love or life, and lovely as death.
  O Gods dethroned and deceased, cast forth, wiped out in a day!
  From your wrath is the world released, redeemed from your chains, men
      say.
  New Gods are crowned in the city; their flowers have broken your rods;
  They are merciful, clothed with pity, the young compassionate Gods.
  But for me their new device is barren, the days are bare;
  Things long past over suffice, and men forgotten that were.
  Time and the Gods are at strife; ye dwell in the midst thereof,
  Draining a little life from the barren breasts of love.
  I say to you, cease, take rest; yea, I say to you all, be at peace,
  Till the bitter milk of her breast and the barren bosom shall cease.
  Wilt thou yet take all, Galilean? but these thou shalt not take,
  The laurel, the palms and the pan, the breasts of the nymphs in the
      brake;
  Breasts more soft than a dove's, that tremble with tenderer breath;
  And all the wings of the Loves, and all the joy before death;
  All the feet of the hours that sound as a single lyre,
  Dropped and deep in the flowers, with strings that flicker like fire.
  More than these wilt thou give, things fairer than all these things?
  Nay, for a little we live, and life hath mutable wings.
  A little while and we die; shall life not thrive as it may?
  For no man under the sky lives twice, outliving his day.
  And grief is a grievous thing, and a man hath enough of his tears:
  Why should he labour, and bring fresh grief to blacken his years?
  Thou hast conquered, O pale Galilean; the world has grown grey from
      thy breath;
  We have drunken of things Lethean, and fed on the fullness of death.
  Laurel is green for a season, and love is sweet for a day;
  But love grows bitter with treason, and laurel outlives not May.
  Sleep, shall we sleep after all? for the world is not sweet in the
      end;
  For the old faiths loosen and fall, the new years ruin and rend.
  Fate is a sea without shore, and the soul is a rock that abides;
  But her ears are vexed with the roar and her face with the foam of the
      tides.
  O lips that the live blood faints in, the leavings of racks and rods!
  O ghastly glories of saints, dead limbs of gibbeted Gods!
  Though all men abase them before you in spirit, and all knees bend,
  I kneel not neither adore you, but standing, look to the end.
  All delicate days and pleasant, all spirits and sorrows are cast
  Far out with the foam of the present that sweeps to the surf of the
      past:
  Where beyond the extreme sea-wall, and between the remote sea-gates,
  Waste water washes, and tall ships founder, and deep death waits:
  Where, mighty with deepening sides, clad about with the seas as with
      wings,
  And impelled of invisible tides, and fulfilled of unspeakable things,
  White-eyed and poisonous-finned, shark-toothed and serpentine-curled,
  Rolls, under the whitening wind of the future, the wave of the world.
  The depths stand naked in sunder behind it, the storms flee away;
  In the hollow before it the thunder is taken and snared as a prey;
  In its sides is the north-wind bound; and its salt is of all men's
      tears;
  With light of ruin, and sound of changes, and pulse of years:
  With travail of day after day, and with trouble of hour upon hour;
  And bitter as blood is the spray; and the crests are as fangs that
      devour:
  And its vapour and storm of its steam as the sighing of spirits to be;
  And its noise as the noise in a dream; and its depth as the roots of
      the sea:
  And the height of its heads as the height of the utmost stars of the
      air:
  And the ends of the earth at the might thereof tremble, and time is
      made bare.
  Will ye bridle the deep sea with reins, will ye chasten the high sea
      with rods?
  Will ye take her to chain her with chains, who is older than all ye
      Gods?
  All ye as a wind shall go by, as a fire shall ye pass and be past;
  Ye are Gods, and behold, ye shall die, and the waves be upon you at
      last.
  In the darkness of time, in the deeps of the years, in the changes of
      things,
  Ye shall sleep as a slain man sleeps, and the world shall forget you
      for kings.
  Though the feet of thine high priests tread where thy lords and our
      forefathers trod,
  Though these that were Gods are dead, and thou being dead art a God,
  Though before thee the throned Cytherean be fallen, and hidden her
      head,
  Yet thy kingdom shall pass, Galilean, thy dead shall go down to thee
      dead.
  Of the maiden thy mother men sing as a goddess with grace clad around;
  Thou art throned where another was king; where another was queen she
      is crowned.
  Yea, once we had sight of another: but now she is queen, say these.
  Not as thine, not as thine was our mother, a blossom of flowering
      seas,
  Clothed round with the world's desire as with raiment, and fair as the
      foam,
  And fleeter than kindled fire, and a goddess, and mother of Rome.
  For thine came pale and a maiden, and sister to sorrow; but ours,
  Her deep hair heavily laden with odour and colour of flowers,
  White rose of the rose-white water, a silver splendour, a flame,
  Bent down unto us that besought her, and earth grew sweet with her
      name.
  For thine came weeping, a slave among slaves, and rejected; but she
  Came flushed from the full-flushed wave, and imperial, her foot on the
      sea.
  And the wonderful waters knew her, the winds and the viewless ways,
  And the roses grew rosier, and bluer the sea-blue stream of the bays.
  Ye are fallen, our lords, by what token? we wist that ye should not
      fall.
  Ye were all so fair that are broken; and one more fair than ye all.
  But I turn to her still, having seen she shall surely abide in the
      end;
  Goddess and maiden and queen, be near me now and befriend.
  O daughter of earth, of my mother, her crown and blossom of birth,
  I am also, I also, thy brother; I go as I came unto earth.
  In the night where thine eyes are as moons are in heaven, the night
      where thou art,
  Where the silence is more than all tunes, where sleep overflows from
      the heart,
  Where the poppies are sweet as the rose in our world, and the red rose
      is white,
  And the wind falls faint as it blows with the fume of the flowers of
      the night,
  And the murmur of spirits that sleep in the shadow of Gods from afar
  Grows dim in thine ears and deep as the deep dim soul of a star,
  In the sweet low light of thy face, under heavens untrod by the sun,
  Let my soul with their souls find place, and forget what is done and
      undone.
  Thou art more than the Gods who number the days of our temporal
      breath:
  For these give labour and slumber; but thou, Proserpina, death.
  Therefore now at thy feet I abide for a season in silence. I know
  I shall die as my fathers died, and sleep as they sleep; even so.
  For the glass of the years is brittle wherein we gaze for a span;
  A little soul for a little bears up this corpse which is man.[2]
  So long I endure, no longer; and laugh not again, neither weep.
  For there is no God found stronger than death; and death is a sleep.



  There is an end of joy and sorrow;
  Peace all day long, all night, all morrow,
    But never a time to laugh or weep.
  The end is come of pleasant places,
  The end of tender words and faces,
    The end of all, the poppied sleep.

  No place for sound within their hearing,
  No room to hope, no time for fearing,
    No lips to laugh, no lids for tears.
  The old years have run out all their measure;
  No chance of pain, no chance of pleasure,
    No fragment of the broken years.

  Outside of all the worlds and ages,
  There where the fool is as the sage is,
    There where the slayer is clean of blood,
  No end, no passage, no beginning,
  There where the sinner leaves off sinning,
    There where the good man is not good.

  There is not one thing with another,
  But Evil saith to Good: My brother,
    My brother, I am one with thee:
  They shall not strive nor cry for ever:
  No man shall choose between them: never
    Shall this thing end and that thing be.

  Wind wherein seas and stars are shaken
  Shall shake them, and they shall not waken;
    None that has lain down shall arise;
  The stones are sealed across their places;
  One shadow is shed on all their faces,
    One blindness cast on all their eyes.

  Sleep, is it sleep perchance that covers
  Each face, as each face were his lover's?
    Farewell; as men that sleep fare well.
  The grave's mouth laughs unto derision
  Desire and dread and dream and vision,
    Delight of heaven and sorrow of hell.

  No soul shall tell nor lip shall number
  The names and tribes of you that slumber;
    No memory, no memorial.
  "Thou knowest"--who shall say thou knowest?
  There is none highest and none lowest:
    An end, an end, an end of all.

  Good night, good sleep, good rest from sorrow
  To these that shall not have good morrow;
    The gods be gentle to all these.
  Nay, if death be not, how shall they be?
  Nay, is there help in heaven? it may be
    All things and lords of things shall cease.

  The stooped urn, filling, dips and flashes;
  The bronzd brims are deep in ashes;
    The pale old lips of death are fed.
  Shall this dust gather flesh hereafter?
  Shall one shed tears or fall to laughter,
    At sight of all these poor old dead?

  Nay, as thou wilt; these know not of it;
  Thine eyes' strong weeping shall not profit,
    Thy laughter shall not give thee ease;
  Cry aloud, spare not, cease not crying,
  Sigh, till thou cleave thy sides with sighing,
    Thou shalt not raise up one of these.

  Burnt spices flash, and burnt wine hisses,
  The breathing flame's mouth curls and kisses
    The small dried rows of frankincense;
  All round the sad red blossoms smoulder,
  Flowers coloured like the fire, but colder,
    In sign of sweet things taken hence;

  Yea, for their sake and in death's favour
  Things of sweet shape and of sweet savour
    We yield them, spice and flower and wine;
  Yea, costlier things than wine or spices,
  Whereof none knoweth how great the price is,
    And fruit that comes not of the vine.

  From boy's pierced throat and girl's pierced bosom
  Drips, reddening round the blood-red blossom,
    The slow delicious bright soft blood,
  Bathing the spices and the pyre,
  Bathing the flowers and fallen fire,
    Bathing the blossom by the bud.

  Roses whose lips the flame has deadened
  Drink till the lapping leaves are reddened
    And warm wet inner petals weep;
  The flower whereof sick sleep gets leisure,
  Barren of balm and purple pleasure,
    Fumes with no native steam of sleep.

  Why will ye weep? what do ye weeping?
  For waking folk and people sleeping,
    And sands that fill and sands that fall,
  The days rose-red, the poppied hours,
  Blood, wine, and spice and fire and flowers,
    There is one end of one and all.

  Shall such an one lend love or borrow?
  Shall these be sorry for thy sorrow?
    Shall these give thanks for words or breath?
  Their hate is as their loving-kindness;
  The frontlet of their brows is blindness,
    The armlet of their arms is death.

  Lo, for no noise or light of thunder
  Shall these grave-clothes be rent in sunder;
    He that hath taken, shall he give?
  He hath rent them: shall he bind together?
  He hath bound them: shall he break the tether?
    He hath slain them: shall he bid them live?

  A little sorrow, a little pleasure,
  Fate metes us from the dusty measure
    That holds the date of all of us;
  We are born with travail and strong crying,
  And from the birth-day to the dying
    The likeness of our life is thus.

  One girds himself to serve another,
  Whose father was the dust, whose mother
    The little dead red worm therein;
  They find no fruit of things they cherish;
  The goodness of a man shall perish,
    It shall be one thing with his sin.

  In deep wet ways by grey old gardens
  Fed with sharp spring the sweet fruit hardens;
    They know not what fruits wane or grow;
  Red summer burns to the utmost ember;
  They know not, neither can remember,
    The old years and flowers they used to know.

  Ah, for their sakes, so trapped and taken,
  For theirs, forgotten and forsaken,
    Watch, sleep not, gird thyself with prayer.
  Nay, where the heart of wrath is broken,
  Where long love ends as a thing spoken,
    How shall thy crying enter there?

  Though the iron sides of the old world falter,
  The likeness of them shall not alter
    For all the rumour of periods,
  The stars and seasons that come after,
  The tears of latter men, the laughter
    Of the old unalterable gods.

  Far up above the years and nations,
  The high gods, clothed and crowned with patience,
    Endure through days of deathlike date;
  They bear the witness of things hidden;
  Before their eyes all life stands chidden,
    As they before the eyes of Fate.

  Not for their love shall Fate retire,
  Nor they relent for our desire,
    Nor the graves open for their call.
  The end is more than joy and anguish,
  Than lives that laugh and lives that languish,
    The poppied sleep, the end of all.



  Lift up thy lips, turn round, look back for love,
    Blind love that comes by night and casts out rest;
    Of all things tired thy lips look weariest,
  Save the long smile that they are wearied of.
  Ah sweet, albeit no love be sweet enough,
    Choose of two loves and cleave unto the best;
    Two loves at either blossom of thy breast
  Strive until one be under and one above.
  Their breath is fire upon the amorous air,
    Fire in thine eyes and where thy lips suspire:
  And whosoever hath seen thee, being so fair,
    Two things turn all his life and blood to fire;
  A strong desire begot on great despair,
    A great despair cast out by strong desire.


  Where between sleep and life some brief space is,
    With love like gold bound round about the head,
    Sex to sweet sex with lips and limbs is wed,
  Turning the fruitful feud of hers and his
  To the waste wedlock of a sterile kiss;
    Yet from them something like as fire is shed
    That shall not be assuaged till death be dead,
  Though neither life nor sleep can find out this.
  Love made himself of flesh that perisheth
    A pleasure-house for all the loves his kin;
  But on the one side sat a man like death,
    And on the other a woman sat like sin.
  So with veiled eyes and sobs between his breath
    Love turned himself and would not enter in.



  Love, is it love or sleep or shadow or light
    That lies between thine eyelids and thine eyes?
    Like a flower laid upon a flower it lies,
  Or like the night's dew laid upon the night.
  Love stands upon thy left hand and thy right,
  Yet by no sunset and by no moonrise
    Shall make thee man and ease a woman's sighs,
    Or make thee woman for a man's delight.
  To what strange end hath some strange god made fair
    The double blossom of two fruitless flowers?
  Hid love in all the folds of all thy hair,
    Fed thee on summers, watered thee with showers,
  Given all the gold that all the seasons wear
    To thee that art a thing of barren hours?



  Yea, love, I see; it is not love but fear.
    Nay, sweet, it is not fear but love, I know;
    Or wherefore should thy body's blossom blow
  So sweetly, or thine eyelids leave so clear
  Thy gracious eyes that never made a tear--
    Though for their love our tears like blood should flow,
    Though love and life and death should come and go,
  So dreadful, so desirable, so dear?
  Yea, sweet, I know; I saw in what swift wise
    Beneath the woman's and the water's kiss
    Thy moist limbs melted into Salmacis,
  And the large light turned tender in thine eyes,
  And all thy boy's breath softened into sighs;
    But Love being blind, how should he know of this?







  O Love! what shall be said of thee?
  The son of grief begot by joy?
  Being sightless, wilt thou see?
  Being sexless, wilt thou be
  Maiden or boy?

  I dreamed of strange lips yesterday
  And cheeks wherein the ambiguous blood
  Was like a rose's--yea,
  A rose's when it lay
  Within the bud.

  What fields have bred thee, or what groves
  Concealed thee, O mysterious flower,
  O double rose of Love's,
  With leaves that lure the doves
  From bud to bower?

  I dare not kiss it, lest my lip
  Press harder than an indrawn breath,
  And all the sweet life slip
  Forth, and the sweet leaves drip,
  Bloodlike, in death.

  O sole desire of my delight!
  O sole delight of my desire!
  Mine eyelids and eyesight
  Feed on thee day and night
  Like lips of fire.

  Lean back thy throat of carven pearl,
  Let thy mouth murmur like the dove's;
  Say, Venus hath no girl,
  No front of female curl,
  Among her Loves.

  Thy sweet low bosom, thy close hair,
  Thy strait soft flanks and slenderer feet,
  Thy virginal strange air,
  Are these not over fair
  For Love to greet?

  How should he greet thee? what new name,
  Fit to move all men's hearts, could move
  Thee, deaf to love or shame,
  Love's sister, by the same
  Mother as Love?

  Ah sweet, the maiden's mouth is cold,
  Her breast-blossoms are simply red,
  Her hair mere brown or gold,
  Fold over simple fold
  Binding her head.

  Thy mouth is made of fire and wine,
  Thy barren bosom takes my kiss
  And turns my soul to thine
  And turns thy lip to mine,
  And mine it is.

  Thou hast a serpent in thine hair,
  In all the curls that close and cling;
  And ah, thy breast-flower!
  Ah love, thy mouth too fair
  To kiss and sting!

  Cleave to me, love me, kiss mine eyes,
  Satiate thy lips with loving me;
  Nay, for thou shalt not rise;
  Lie still as Love that dies
  For love of thee.

  Mine arms are close about thine head,
  My lips are fervent on thy face,
  And where my kiss hath fed
  Thy flower-like blood leaps red
  To the kissed place.

  O bitterness of things too sweet!
  O broken singing of the dove!
  Love's wings are over fleet,
  And like the panther's feet
  The feet of Love.



  These many years since we began to be,
  What have the gods done with us? what with me,
  What with my love? they have shown me fates and fears,
  Harsh springs, and fountains bitterer than the sea,
  Grief a fixed star, and joy a vane that veers,
    These many years.

  With her, my love, with her have they done well?
  But who shall answer for her? who shall tell
  Sweet things or sad, such things as no man hears?
  May no tears fall, if no tears ever fell,
  From eyes more dear to me than starriest spheres
    These many years!

  But if tears ever touched, for any grief,
  Those eyelids folded like a white-rose leaf,
  Deep double shells wherethrough the eye-flower peers,
  Let them weep once more only, sweet and brief,
  Brief tears and bright, for one who gave her tears
    These many years.




  If you loved me ever so little,
    I could bear the bonds that gall,
  I could dream the bonds were brittle;
    You do not love me at all.

  O beautiful lips, O bosom
    More white than the moon's and warm,
  A sterile, a ruinous blossom
    Is blown your way in a storm.

  As the lost white feverish limbs
    Of the Lesbian Sappho, adrift
  In foam where the sea-weed swims,
    Swam loose for the streams to lift,

  My heart swims blind in a sea
    That stuns me; swims to and fro,
  And gathers to windward and lee
    Lamentation, and mourning, and woe.

  A broken, an emptied boat,
    Sea saps it, winds blow apart,
  Sick and adrift and afloat,
    The barren waif of a heart.

  Where, when the gods would be cruel,
    Do they go for a torture? where
  Plant thorns, set pain like a jewel?
    Ah, not in the flesh, not there!

  The racks of earth and the rods
    Are weak as foam on the sands;
  In the heart is the prey for gods,
    Who crucify hearts, not hands.

  Mere pangs corrode and consume,
    Dead when life dies in the brain;
  In the infinite spirit is room
    For the pulse of an infinite pain.

  I wish you were dead, my dear;
    I would give you, had I to give
  Some death too bitter to fear;
    It is better to die than live.

  I wish you were stricken of thunder
    And burnt with a bright flame through,
  Consumed and cloven in sunder,
    I dead at your feet like you.

  If I could but know after all,
    I might cease to hunger and ache,
  Though your heart were ever so small,
    If it were not a stone or a snake.

  You are crueller, you that we love,
    Than hatred, hunger, or death;
  You have eyes and breasts like a dove,
    And you kill men's hearts with a breath

  As plague in a poisonous city
    Insults and exults on her dead,
  So you, when pallid for pity
    Comes love, and fawns to be fed.

  As a tame beast writhes and wheedles,
    He fawns to be fed with wiles;
  You carve him a cross of needles,
    And whet them sharp as your smiles.

  He is patient of thorn and whip,
    He is dumb under axe or dart;
  You suck with a sleepy red lip
    The wet red wounds in his heart.

  You thrill as his pulses dwindle,
    You brighten and warm as he bleeds,
  With insatiable eyes that kindle
    And insatiable mouth that feeds.

  Your hands nailed love to the tree,
    You stript him, scourged him with rods,
  And drowned him deep in the sea
    That hides the dead and their gods.

  And for all this, die will he not;
    There is no man sees him but I;
  You came and went and forgot;
    I hope he will some day die.





  Who hath known the ways of time
    Or trodden behind his feet?
      There is no such man among men.
  For chance overcomes him, or crime
    Changes; for all things sweet
      In time wax bitter again.
  Who shall give sorrow enough,
    Or who the abundance of tears?
  Mine eyes are heavy with love
    And a sword gone thorough mine ears,
      A sound like a sword and fire,
      For pity, for great desire;
  Who shall ensure me thereof,
    Lest I die, being full of my fears?

  Who hath known the ways and the wrath,
    The sleepless spirit, the root
      And blossom of evil will,
        The divine device of a god?
  Who shall behold it or hath?
    The twice-tongued prophets are mute,
      The many speakers are still;
        No foot has travelled or trod,
  No hand has meted, his path.
    Man's fate is a blood-red fruit,
      And the mighty gods have their fill
        And relax not the rein, or the rod.

  Ye were mighty in heart from of old,
    Ye slew with the spear, and are slain.
  Keen after heat is the cold,
    Sore after summer is rain,
  And melteth man to the bone.
    As water he weareth away,
    As a flower, as an hour in a day,
  Fallen from laughter to moan.
  But my spirit is shaken with fear
    Lest an evil thing begin,
  New-born, a spear for a spear,
    And one for another sin.
  Or ever our tears began,
    It was known from of old and said;
  One law for a living man,
    And another law for the dead.
  For these are fearful and sad,
    Vain, and things without breath;
      While he lives let a man be glad,
        For none hath joy of his death.



  Who hath known the pain, the old pain of earth,
    Or all the travail of the sea,
  The many ways and waves, the birth
  Fruitless, the labour nothing worth?
    Who hath known, who knoweth, O gods? not we.
  There is none shall say he hath seen,
    There is none he hath known.
  Though he saith, Lo, a lord have I been,
    I have reaped and sown;
  I have seen the desire of mine eyes,
    The beginning of love,
  The season of kisses and sighs
    And the end thereof.
  I have known the ways of the sea,
    All the perilous ways,
  Strange winds have spoken with me,
    And the tongues of strange days.
  I have hewn the pine for ships;
    Where steeds run arow,
  I have seen from their bridled lips
    Foam blown as the snow.
  With snapping of chariot-poles
    And with straining of oars
  I have grazed in the race the goals,
    In the storm the shores;
  As a greave is cleft with an arrow
    At the joint of the knee,
  I have cleft through the sea-straits narrow
    To the heart of the sea.
  When air was smitten in sunder
    I have watched on high
  The ways of the stars and the thunder
    In the night of the sky;
  Where the dark brings forth light as a flower,
    As from lips that dissever;
  One abideth the space of an hour,
    One endureth for ever.
  Lo, what hath he seen or known,
    Of the way and the wave
  Unbeholden, unsailed on, unsown,
    From the breast to the grave?

  Or ever the stars were made, or skies,
    Grief was born, and the kinless night,
      Mother of gods without form or name.
  And light is born out of heaven and dies,
    And one day knows not another's light,
      But night is one, and her shape the same.

  But dumb the goddesses underground
    Wait, and we hear not on earth if their feet
      Rise, and the night wax loud with their wings;
  Dumb, without word or shadow of sound;
    And sift in scales and winnow as wheat
      Men's souls, and sorrow of manifold things.


  Nor less of grief than ours
    The gods wrought long ago
      To bruise men one by one;
  But with the incessant hours
    Fresh grief and greener woe
      Spring, as the sudden sun
  Year after year makes flowers;
    And these die down and grow,
      And the next year lacks none.

  As these men sleep, have slept
    The old heroes in time fled,
      No dream-divided sleep;
  And holier eyes have wept
    Than ours, when on her dead
      Gods have seen Thetis weep,
  With heavenly hair far-swept
    Back, heavenly hands outspread
      Round what she could not keep,

  Could not one day withhold,
    One night; and like as these
      White ashes of no weight,
  Held not his urn the cold
    Ashes of Heracles?
      For all things born one gate
  Opens, no gate of gold;
    Opens; and no man sees
      Beyond the gods and fate.





  Till death have broken
  Sweet life's love-token,
  Till all be spoken
    That shall be said,
  What dost thou praying,
  O soul, and playing
  With song and saying,
    Things flown and fled?
  For this we know not--
  That fresh springs flow not
  And fresh griefs grow not
    When men are dead;
  When strange years cover
  Lover and lover,
  And joys are over
    And tears are shed.

  If one day's sorrow
  Mar the day's morrow--
  If man's life borrow
    And man's death pay--
  If souls once taken,
  If lives once shaken,
  Arise, awaken,
    By night, by day--
  Why with strong crying
  And years of sighing,
  Living and dying,
    Fast ye and pray?
  For all your weeping,
  Waking and sleeping,
  Death comes to reaping
    And takes away.

  Though time rend after
  Roof-tree from rafter,
  A little laughter
    Is much more worth
  Than thus to measure
  The hour, the treasure,
  The pain, the pleasure,
    The death, the birth;
  Grief, when days alter,
  Like joy shall falter;
  Song-book and psalter,
    Mourning and mirth.
  Live like the swallow;
  Seek not to follow
  Where earth is hollow
    Under the earth.





  Leave go my hands, let me catch breath and see;
  Let the dew-fall drench either side of me;
  Clear apple-leaves are soft upon that moon
  Seen sidelong like a blossom in the tree;
  Ah God, ah God, that day should be so soon.

  The grass is thick and cool, it lets us lie.
  Kissed upon either cheek and either eye,
  I turn to thee as some green afternoon
  Turns toward sunset, and is loth to die;
  Ah God, ah God, that day should be so soon.

  Lie closer, lean your face upon my side,
  Feel where the dew fell that has hardly dried,
  Hear how the blood beats that went nigh to swoon;
  The pleasure lives there when the sense has died;
  Ah God, ah God, that day should be so soon.

  O my fair lord, I charge you leave me this:
  Is it not sweeter than a foolish kiss?
  Nay take it then, my flower, my first in June,
  My rose, so like a tender mouth it is:
  Ah God, ah God, that day should be so soon.

  Love, till dawn sunder night from day with fire,
  Dividing my delight and my desire,
  The crescent life and love the plenilune,
  Love me though dusk begin and dark retire;
  Ah God, ah God, that day should be so soon.

  Ah, my heart fails, my blood draws back; I know,
  When life runs over, life is near to go;
  And with the slain of love love's ways are strewn,
  And with their blood, if love will have it so;
  Ah God, ah God, that day should be so soon.

  Ah, do thy will now; slay me if thou wilt;
  There is no building now the walls are built,
  No quarrying now the corner-stone is hewn,
  No drinking now the vine's whole blood is spilt;
  Ah God, ah God, that day should be so soon.

  Nay, slay me now; nay, for I will be slain;
  Pluck thy red pleasure from the teeth of pain,
  Break down thy vine ere yet grape-gatherers prune,
  Slay me ere day can slay desire again;
  Ah God, ah God, that day should be so soon.

  Yea, with thy sweet lips, with thy sweet sword; yea,
  Take life and all, for I will die, I say;
  Love, I gave love, is life a better boon?
  For sweet night's sake I will not live till day;
  Ah God, ah God, that day should be so soon.

  Nay, I will sleep then only; nay, but go.
  Ah sweet, too sweet to me, my sweet, I know
  Love, sleep, and death go to the sweet same tune;
  Hold my hair fast, and kiss me through it so.
  Ah God, ah God, that day should be so soon.






  If love were what the rose is,
    And I were like the leaf,
  Our lives would grow together
  In sad or singing weather,
  Blown fields or flowerful closes,
    Green pleasure or grey grief;
  If love were what the rose is,
    And I were like the leaf.

  If I were what the words are,
    And love were like the tune,
  With double sound and single
  Delight our lips would mingle,
  With kisses glad as birds are
    That get sweet rain at noon;
  If I were what the words are,
    And love were like the tune.

  If you were life, my darling,
    And I your love were death,
  We'd shine and snow together
  Ere March made sweet the weather
  With daffodil and starling
    And hours of fruitful breath;
  If you were life, my darling,
    And I your love were death.

  If you were thrall to sorrow,
    And I were page to joy,
  We'd play for lives and seasons
  With loving looks and treasons
  And tears of night and morrow
    And laughs of maid and boy;
  If you were thrall to sorrow,
    And I were page to joy.

  If you were April's lady,
    And I were lord in May,
  We'd throw with leaves for hours
  And draw for days with flowers,
  Till day like night were shady
    And night were bright like day;
  If you were April's lady,
    And I were lord in May.

  If you were queen of pleasure,
    And I were king of pain,
  We'd hunt down love together,
  Pluck out his flying-feather,
  And teach his feet a measure,
    And find his mouth a rein;
  If you were queen of pleasure,
    And I were king of pain.






  Lean back, and get some minutes' peace;
    Let your head lean
  Back to the shoulder with its fleece
    Of locks, Faustine.

  The shapely silver shoulder stoops,
    Weighed over clean
  With state of splendid hair that droops
    Each side, Faustine.

  Let me go over your good gifts
    That crown you queen;
  A queen whose kingdom ebbs and shifts
    Each week, Faustine.

  Bright heavy brows well gathered up:
    White gloss and sheen;
  Carved lips that make my lips a cup
    To drink, Faustine,

  Wine and rank poison, milk and blood,
    Being mixed therein
  Since first the devil threw dice with God
    For you, Faustine.

  Your naked new-born soul, their stake,
    Stood blind between;
  God said "let him that wins her take
    And keep Faustine."

  But this time Satan throve, no doubt;
    Long since, I ween,
  God's part in you was battered out;
    Long since, Faustine.

  The die rang sideways as it fell,
    Rang cracked and thin,
  Like a man's laughter heard in hell
    Far down, Faustine,

  A shadow of laughter like a sigh,
    Dead sorrow's kin;
  So rang, thrown down, the devil's die
    That won Faustine.

  A suckling of his breed you were,
    One hard to wean;
  But God, who lost you, left you fair,
    We see, Faustine.

  You have the face that suits a woman
    For her soul's screen--
  The sort of beauty that's called human
    In hell, Faustine.

  You could do all things but be good
    Or chaste of mien;
  And that you would not if you could,
    We know, Faustine.

  Even he who cast seven devils out
    Of Magdalene
  Could hardly do as much, I doubt,
    For you, Faustine.

  Did Satan make you to spite God?
    Or did God mean
  To scourge with scorpions for a rod
    Our sins, Faustine?

  I know what queen at first you were,
    As though I had seen
  Red gold and black imperious hair
    Twice crown Faustine.

  As if your fed sarcophagus
    Spared flesh and skin,
  You come back face to face with us,
    The same Faustine.

  She loved the games men played with death,
    Where death must win;
  As though the slain man's blood and breath
    Revived Faustine.

  Nets caught the pike, pikes tore the net;
    Lithe limbs and lean
  From drained-out pores dripped thick red sweat
    To soothe Faustine.

  She drank the steaming drift and dust
    Blown off the scene;
  Blood could not ease the bitter lust
    That galled Faustine.

  All round the foul fat furrows reeked,
    Where blood sank in;
  The circus splashed and seethed and shrieked
    All round Faustine.

  But these are gone now: years entomb
    The dust and din;
  Yea, even the bath's fierce reek and fume
    That slew Faustine.

  Was life worth living then? and now
    Is life worth sin?
  Where are the imperial years? and how
    Are you Faustine?

  Your soul forgot her joys, forgot
    Her times of teen;
  Yea, this life likewise will you not
    Forget, Faustine?

  For in the time we know not of
    Did fate begin
  Weaving the web of days that wove
    Your doom, Faustine.

  The threads were wet with wine, and all
    Were smooth to spin;
  They wove you like a Bacchanal,
    The first Faustine.

  And Bacchus cast your mates and you
    Wild grapes to glean;
  Your flower-like lips were dashed with dew
    From his, Faustine.

  Your drenched loose hands were stretched to hold
    The vine's wet green,
  Long ere they coined in Roman gold
    Your face, Faustine.

  Then after change of soaring feather
    And winnowing fin,
  You woke in weeks of feverish weather,
    A new Faustine.

  A star upon your birthday burned,
    Whose fierce serene
  Red pulseless planet never yearned
    In heaven, Faustine.

  Stray breaths of Sapphic song that blew
    Through Mitylene
  Shook the fierce quivering blood in you
    By night, Faustine.

  The shameless nameless love that makes
    Hell's iron gin
  Shut on you like a trap that breaks
    The soul, Faustine.

  And when your veins were void and dead,
    What ghosts unclean
  Swarmed round the straitened barren bed
    That hid Faustine?

  What sterile growths of sexless root
    Or epicene?
  What flower of kisses without fruit
    Of love, Faustine?

  What adders came to shed their coats?
    What coiled obscene
  Small serpents with soft stretching throats
    Caressed Faustine?

  But the time came of famished hours,
    Maimed loves and mean,
  This ghastly thin-faced time of ours,
    To spoil Faustine.

  You seem a thing that hinges hold,
    A love-machine
  With clockwork joints of supple gold--
    No more, Faustine.

  Not godless, for you serve one God,
    The Lampsacene,
  Who metes the gardens with his rod;
    Your lord, Faustine.

  If one should love you with real love
    (Such things have been,
  Things your fair face knows nothing of,
    It seems, Faustine);

  That clear hair heavily bound back,
    The lights wherein
  Shift from dead blue to burnt-up black;
    Your throat, Faustine,

  Strong, heavy, throwing out the face
    And hard bright chin
  And shameful scornful lips that grace
    Their shame, Faustine,

  Curled lips, long-since half kissed away,
    Still sweet and keen;
  You'd give him--poison shall we say?
    Or what, Faustine?






  There was a graven image of Desire
      Painted with red blood on a ground of gold
      Passing between the young men and the old,
  And by him Pain, whose body shone like fire,
  And Pleasure with gaunt hands that grasped their hire.
      Of his left wrist, with fingers clenched and cold,
      The insatiable Satiety kept hold,
  Walking with feet unshod that pashed the mire.
  The senses and the sorrows and the sins,
      And the strange loves that suck the breasts of Hate
  Till lips and teeth bite in their sharp indenture,
  Followed like beasts with flap of wings and fins.
      Death stood aloof behind a gaping grate,
  Upon whose lock was written _Peradventure_.





  Sweet mother, in a minute's span
    Death parts thee and my love of thee;
  Sweet love, that yet art living man,
    Come back, true love, to comfort me.
  Back, ah, come back! ah wellaway!
  But my love comes not any day.

  As roses, when the warm West blows,
    Break to full flower and sweeten spring,
  My soul would break to a glorious rose
    In such wise at his whispering.
  In vain I listen; wellaway!
  My love says nothing any day.

  You that will weep for pity of love
    On the low place where I am lain,
  I pray you, having wept enough,
    Tell him for whom I bore such pain
  That he was yet, ah! wellaway!
  My true love to my dying day.




  Take hands and part with laughter;
    Touch lips and part with tears;
  Once more and no more after,
    Whatever comes with years.
  We twain shall not remeasure
    The ways that left us twain;
  Nor crush the lees of pleasure
    From sanguine grapes of pain.

  We twain once well in sunder,
    What will the mad gods do
  For hate with me, I wonder,
    Or what for love with you?
  Forget them till November,
    And dream there's April yet;
  Forget that I remember,
    And dream that I forget.

  Time found our tired love sleeping,
    And kissed away his breath;
  But what should we do weeping,
    Though light love sleep to death?
  We have drained his lips at leisure,
    Till there's not left to drain
  A single sob of pleasure,
    A single pulse of pain.

  Dream that the lips once breathless
    Might quicken if they would;
  Say that the soul is deathless;
    Dream that the gods are good;
  Say March may wed September,
    And time divorce regret;
  But not that you remember,
    And not that I forget.

  We have heard from hidden places
    What love scarce lives and hears:
  We have seen on fervent faces
    The pallor of strange tears:
  We have trod the wine-vat's treasure,
    Whence, ripe to steam and stain,
  Foams round the feet of pleasure
    The blood-red must of pain.

  Remembrance may recover
    And time bring back to time
  The name of your first lover,
    The ring of my first rhyme;
  But rose-leaves of December
    The frosts of June shall fret,
  The day that you remember,
    The day that I forget.

  The snake that hides and hisses
    In heaven we twain have known;
  The grief of cruel kisses,
    The joy whose mouth makes moan;
  The pulse's pause and measure,
    Where in one furtive vein
  Throbs through the heart of pleasure
    The purpler blood of pain.

  We have done with tears and treasons
    And love for treason's sake;
  Room for the swift new seasons,
    The years that burn and break,
  Dismantle and dismember
    Men's days and dreams, Juliette;
  For love may not remember,
    But time will not forget.

  Life treads down love in flying,
    Time withers him at root;
  Bring all dead things and dying,
    Reaped sheaf and ruined fruit,
  Where, crushed by three days' pressure,
    Our three days' love lies slain;
  And earlier leaf of pleasure,
    And latter flower of pain.

  Breathe close upon the ashes,
    It may be flame will leap;
  Unclose the soft close lashes,
    Lift up the lids, and weep.
  Light love's extinguished ember,
    Let one tear leave it wet
  For one that you remember
    And ten that you forget.






  When the game began between them for a jest,
  He played king and she played queen to match the best;
  Laughter soft as tears, and tears that turned to laughter,
  These were things she sought for years and sorrowed after.

  Pleasure with dry lips, and pain that walks by night;
  All the sting and all the stain of long delight;
  These were things she knew not of, that knew not of her,
  When she played at half a love with half a lover.

  Time was chorus, gave them cues to laugh or cry;
  They would kill, befool, amuse him, let him die;
  Set him webs to weave to-day and break to-morrow,
  Till he died for good in play, and rose in sorrow.

  What the years mean; how time dies and is not slain;
  How love grows and laughs and cries and wanes again;
  These were things she came to know, and take their measure,
  When the play was played out so for one man's pleasure.






  Nothing is better, I well think,
    Than love; the hidden well-water
  Is not so delicate to drink:
    This was well seen of me and her.

  I served her in a royal house;
    I served her wine and curious meat.
  For will to kiss between her brows,
    I had no heart to sleep or eat.

  Mere scorn God knows she had of me,
    A poor scribe, nowise great or fair,
  Who plucked his clerk's hood back to see
    Her curled-up lips and amorous hair.

  I vex my head with thinking this.
    Yea, though God always hated me,
  And hates me now that I can kiss
    Her eyes, plait up her hair to see

  How she then wore it on the brows,
    Yet am I glad to have her dead
  Here in this wretched wattled house
    Where I can kiss her eyes and head.

  Nothing is better, I well know,
    Than love; no amber in cold sea
  Or gathered berries under snow:
    That is well seen of her and me.

  Three thoughts I make my pleasure of:
    First I take heart and think of this:
  That knight's gold hair she chose to love,
    His mouth she had such will to kiss.

  Then I remember that sundawn
    I brought him by a privy way
  Out at her lattice, and thereon
    What gracious words she found to say.

  (Cold rushes for such little feet--
    Both feet could lie into my hand.
  A marvel was it of my sweet
    Her upright body could so stand.)

  "Sweet friend, God give you thank and grace;
    Now am I clean and whole of shame,
  Nor shall men burn me in the face
    For my sweet fault that scandals them."

  I tell you over word by word.
    She, sitting edgewise on her bed,
  Holding her feet, said thus. The third,
    A sweeter thing than these, I said.

  God, that makes time and ruins it
    And alters not, abiding God,
  Changed with disease her body sweet,
    The body of love wherein she abode.

  Love is more sweet and comelier
    Than a dove's throat strained out to sing.
  All they spat out and cursed at her
    And cast her forth for a base thing.

  They cursed her, seeing how God had wrought
    This curse to plague her, a curse of his.
  Fools were they surely, seeing not
    How sweeter than all sweet she is.

  He that had held her by the hair,
    With kissing lips blinding her eyes,
  Felt her bright bosom, strained and bare,
    Sigh under him, with short mad cries

  Out of her throat and sobbing mouth
    And body broken up with love,
  With sweet hot tears his lips were loth
    Her own should taste the savour of,

  Yea, he inside whose grasp all night
    Her fervent body leapt or lay,
  Stained with sharp kisses red and white,
    Found her a plague to spurn away.

  I hid her in this wattled house,
    I served her water and poor bread.
  For joy to kiss between her brows
    Time upon time I was nigh dead.

  Bread failed; we got but well-water
    And gathered grass with dropping seed.
  I had such joy of kissing her,
    I had small care to sleep or feed.

  Sometimes when service made me glad
    The sharp tears leapt between my lids,
  Falling on her, such joy I had
    To do the service God forbids.

  "I pray you let me be at peace,
    Get hence, make room for me to die."
  She said that: her poor lip would cease,
    Put up to mine, and turn to cry.

  I said, "Bethink yourself how love
    Fared in us twain, what either did;
  Shall I unclothe my soul thereof?
    That I should do this, God forbid."

  Yea, though God hateth us, he knows
    That hardly in a little thing
  Love faileth of the work it does
    Till it grow ripe for gathering.

  Six months, and now my sweet is dead
    A trouble takes me; I know not
  If all were done well, all well said,
    No word or tender deed forgot.

  Too sweet, for the least part in her,
    To have shed life out by fragments; yet,
  Could the close mouth catch breath and stir,
    I might see something I forget.

  Six months, and I sit still and hold
    In two cold palms her cold two feet.
  Her hair, half grey half ruined gold,
    Thrills me and burns me in kissing it.

  Love bites and stings me through, to see
    Her keen face made of sunken bones.
  Her worn-off eyelids madden me,
    That were shot through with purple once.

  She said, "Be good with me; I grow
    So tired for shame's sake, I shall die
  If you say nothing:" even so.
    And she is dead now, and shame put by.

  Yea, and the scorn she had of me
    In the old time, doubtless vexed her then.
  I never should have kissed her. See
    What fools God's anger makes of men!

  She might have loved me a little too,
    Had I been humbler for her sake.
  But that new shame could make love new
    She saw not--yet her shame did make.

  I took too much upon my love,
    Having for such mean service done
  Her beauty and all the ways thereof,
    Her face and all the sweet thereon.

  Yea, all this while I tended her,
    I know the old love held fast his part:
  I know the old scorn waxed heavier,
    Mixed with sad wonder, in her heart.

  It may be all my love went wrong--
    A scribe's work writ awry and blurred,
  Scrawled after the blind evensong--
    Spoilt music with no perfect word.

  But surely I would fain have done
    All things the best I could. Perchance
  Because I failed, came short of one,
    She kept at heart that other man's.

  I am grown blind with all these things:
    It may be now she hath in sight
  Some better knowledge; still there clings
    The old question. Will not God do right?[3]




  The burden of fair women. Vain delight,
    And love self-slain in some sweet shameful way,
  And sorrowful old age that comes by night
    As a thief comes that has no heart by day,
    And change that finds fair cheeks and leaves them grey,
  And weariness that keeps awake for hire,
    And grief that says what pleasure used to say;
  This is the end of every man's desire.

  The burden of bought kisses. This is sore,
    A burden without fruit in childbearing;
  Between the nightfall and the dawn threescore,
    Threescore between the dawn and evening.
    The shuddering in thy lips, the shuddering
  In thy sad eyelids tremulous like fire,
    Makes love seem shameful and a wretched thing,
  This is the end of every man's desire.

  The burden of sweet speeches. Nay, kneel down,
    Cover thy head, and weep; for verily
  These market-men that buy thy white and brown
    In the last days shall take no thought for thee.
    In the last days like earth thy face shall be,
  Yea, like sea-marsh made thick with brine and mire,
    Sad with sick leavings of the sterile sea.
  This is the end of every man's desire.

  The burden of long living. Thou shalt fear
    Waking, and sleeping mourn upon thy bed;
  And say at night "Would God the day were here,"
    And say at dawn "Would God the day were dead."
    With weary days thou shalt be clothed and fed,
  And wear remorse of heart for thine attire,
    Pain for thy girdle and sorrow upon thine head;
  This is the end of every man's desire.

  The burden of bright colours. Thou shalt see
    Gold tarnished, and the grey above the green;
  And as the thing thou seest thy face shall be,
    And no more as the thing beforetime seen.
    And thou shalt say of mercy "It hath been,"
  And living, watch the old lips and loves expire,
    And talking, tears shall take thy breath between;
  This is the end of every man's desire.

  The burden of sad sayings. In that day
    Thou shalt tell all thy days and hours, and tell
  Thy times and ways and words of love, and say
    How one was dear and one desirable,
    And sweet was life to hear and sweet to smell,
  But now with lights reverse the old hours retire
    And the last hour is shod with fire from hell;
  This is the end of every man's desire.

  The burden of four seasons. Rain in spring,
    White rain and wind among the tender trees;
  A summer of green sorrows gathering,
    Rank autumn in a mist of miseries,
    With sad face set towards the year, that sees
  The charred ash drop out of the dropping pyre,
    And winter wan with many maladies;
  This is the end of every man's desire.

  The burden of dead faces. Out of sight
    And out of love, beyond the reach of hands,
  Changed in the changing of the dark and light,
    They walk and weep about the barren lands
    Where no seed is nor any garner stands,
  Where in short breaths the doubtful days respire,
    And time's turned glass lets through the sighing sands;
  This is the end of every man's desire.

  The burden of much gladness. Life and lust
    Forsake thee, and the face of thy delight;
  And underfoot the heavy hour strews dust,
    And overhead strange weathers burn and bite;
    And where the red was, lo the bloodless white,
  And where truth was, the likeness of a liar,
    And where day was, the likeness of the night;
  This is the end of every man's desire.




  Princes, and ye whom pleasure quickeneth,
    Heed well this rhyme before your pleasure tire;
  For life is sweet, but after life is death.
    This is the end of every man's desire.






  Kissing her hair I sat against her feet,
  Wove and unwove it, wound and found it sweet;
  Made fast therewith her hands, drew down her eyes,
  Deep as deep flowers and dreamy like dim skies;
  With her own tresses bound and found her fair,
      Kissing her hair.

  Sleep were no sweeter than her face to me,
  Sleep of cold sea-bloom under the cold sea;
  What pain could get between my face and hers?
  What new sweet thing would love not relish worse?
  Unless, perhaps, white death had kissed me there,
      Kissing her hair?





  White rose in red rose-garden
    Is not so white;
  Snowdrops that plead for pardon
    And pine for fright
  Because the hard East blows
  Over their maiden rows
    Grow not as this face grows from pale to bright.

  Behind the veil, forbidden,
    Shut up from sight,
  Love, is there sorrow hidden,
    Is there delight?
  Is joy thy dower or grief,
  White rose of weary leaf,
    Late rose whose life is brief, whose loves are light?

  Soft snows that hard winds harden
    Till each flake bite
  Fill all the flowerless garden
    Whose flowers took flight
  Long since when summer ceased,
  And men rose up from feast,
    And warm west wind grew east, and warm day night.




  "Come snow, come wind or thunder
    High up in air,
  I watch my face, and wonder
    At my bright hair;
  Nought else exalts or grieves
  The rose at heart, that heaves
    With love of her own leaves and lips that pair.

  "She knows not loves that kissed her
    She knows not where.
  Art thou the ghost, my sister,
    White sister there,
  Am I the ghost, who knows?
  My hand, a fallen rose,
    Lies snow-white on white snows, and takes no care.

  "I cannot see what pleasures
    Or what pains were;
  What pale new loves and treasures
    New years will bear;
  What beam will fall, what shower,
  What grief or joy for dower;
    But one thing-knows the flower; the flower is fair."




  Glad, but not flushed with gladness,
    Since joys go by;
  Sad, but not bent with sadness,
    Since sorrows die;
  Deep in the gleaming glass
  She sees all past things pass,
    And all sweet life that was lie down and lie.

  There glowing ghosts of flowers
    Draw down, draw nigh;
  And wings of swift spent hours
    Take flight and fly;
  She sees by formless gleams,
  She hears across cold streams,
    Dead mouths of many dreams that sing and sigh.

  Face fallen and white throat lifted,
    With sleepless eye
  She sees old loves that drifted,
    She knew not why,
  Old loves and faded fears
  Float down a stream that hears
    The flowing of all men's tears beneath the sky.





  Sweet for a little even to fear, and sweet,
  O love, to lay down fear at love's fair feet;
  Shall not some fiery memory of his breath
  Lie sweet on lips that touch the lips of death?
  Yet leave me not; yet, if thou wilt, be free;
  Love me no more, but love my love of thee.
  Love where thou wilt, and live thy life; and I,
  One thing I can, and one love cannot--die.
  Pass from me; yet thine arms, thine eyes, thine hair,
  Feed my desire and deaden my despair.
  Yet once more ere time change us, ere my cheek
  Whiten, ere hope be dumb or sorrow speak,
  Yet once more ere thou hate me, one full kiss;
  Keep other hours for others, save me this.
  Yea, and I will not (if it please thee) weep,
  Lest thou be sad; I will but sigh, and sleep.
  Sweet, does death hurt? thou canst not do me wrong:
  I shall not lack thee, as I loved thee, long.
  Hast thou not given me above all that live
  Joy, and a little sorrow shalt not give?
  What even though fairer fingers of strange girls
  Pass nestling through thy beautiful boy's curls
  As mine did, or those curled lithe lips of thine
  Meet theirs as these, all theirs come after mine;
  And though I were not, though I be not, best,
  I have loved and love thee more than all the rest.
  O love, O lover, loose or hold me fast,
  I had thee first, whoever have thee last;
  Fairer or not, what need I know, what care?
  To thy fair bud my blossom once seemed fair.
  Why am I fair at all before thee, why
  At all desired? seeing thou art fair, not I.
  I shall be glad of thee, O fairest head,
  Alive, alone, without thee, with thee, dead;
  I shall remember while the light lives yet,
  And in the night-time I shall not forget.
  Though (as thou wilt) thou leave me ere life leave,
  I will not, for thy love I will not, grieve;
  Not as they use who love not more than I,
  Who love not as I love thee though I die;
  And though thy lips, once mine, be oftener prest
  To many another brow and balmier breast,
  And sweeter arms, or sweeter to thy mind,
  Lull thee or lure, more fond thou wilt not find.






  Back to the flower-town, side by side,
      The bright months bring,
  New-born, the bridegroom and the bride,
      Freedom and spring.

  The sweet land laughs from sea to sea,
      Filled full of sun;
  All things come back to her, being free;
      All things but one.

  In many a tender wheaten plot
      Flowers that were dead
  Live, and old suns revive; but not
      That holier head.

  By this white wandering waste of sea,
      Far north, I hear
  One face shall never turn to me
      As once this year:

  Shall never smile and turn and rest
      On mine as there,
  Nor one most sacred hand be prest
      Upon my hair.

  I came as one whose thoughts half linger,
      Half run before;
  The youngest to the oldest singer
      That England bore.

  I found him whom I shall not find
      Till all grief end,
  In holiest age our mightiest mind,
      Father and friend.

  But thou, if anything endure,
      If hope there be,
  O spirit that man's life left pure,
      Man's death set free,

  Not with disdain of days that were
      Look earthward now;
  Let dreams revive the reverend hair,
      The imperial brow;

  Come back in sleep, for in the life
      Where thou art not
  We find none like thee. Time and strife
      And the world's lot

  Move thee no more; but love at least
      And reverent heart
  May move thee, royal and released,
      Soul, as thou art.

  And thou, his Florence, to thy trust
      Receive and keep,
  Keep safe his dedicated dust,
      His sacred sleep.

  So shall thy lovers, come from far,
      Mix with thy name
  As morning-star with evening-star
      His faultless fame







  Push hard across the sand,
      For the salt wind gathers breath;
  Shoulder and wrist and hand,
      Push hard as the push of death.

  The wind is as iron that rings,
      The foam-heads loosen and flee;
  It swells and welters and swings,
      The pulse of the tide of the sea.

  And up on the yellow cliff
      The long corn flickers and shakes;
  Push, for the wind holds stiff,
      And the gunwale dips and rakes.

  Good hap to the fresh fierce weather,
      The quiver and beat of the sea!
  While three men hold together,
      The kingdoms are less by three.

  Out to the sea with her there,
      Out with her over the sand;
  Let the kings keep the earth for their share!
      We have done with the sharers of land.

  They have tied the world in a tether,
      They have bought over God with a fee;
  While three men hold together,
      The kingdoms are less by three.

  We have done with the kisses that sting,
      The thief's mouth red from the feast,
  The blood on the hands of the king
      And the lie at the lips of the priest.

  Will they tie the winds in a tether,
      Put a bit in the jaws of the sea?
  While three men hold together,
      The kingdoms are less by three.

  Let our flag run out straight in the wind!
      The old red shall be floated again
  When the ranks that are thin shall be thinned,
      When the names that were twenty are ten;

  When the devil's riddle is mastered
      And the galley-bench creaks with a Pope,
  We shall see Buonaparte the bastard
      Kick heels with his throat in a rope.

  While the shepherd sets wolves on his sheep
      And the emperor halters his kine,
  While Shame is a watchman asleep
      And Faith is a keeper of swine,

  Let the wind shake our flag like a feather,
      Like the plumes of the foam of the sea!
  While three men hold together,
      The kingdoms are less by three.

  All the world has its burdens to bear,
      From Cayenne to the Austrian whips;
  Forth, with the rain in our hair
      And the salt sweet foam in our lips;

  In the teeth of the hard glad weather,
      In the blown wet face of the sea;
  While three men hold together,
      The kingdoms are less by three.





  The heart of the rulers is sick, and the high-priest covers his head:
  For this is the song of the quick that is heard in the ears of the
      dead.

  The poor and the halt and the blind are keen and mighty and fleet:
  Like the noise of the blowing of wind is the sound of the noise of
      their feet.

  The wind has the sound of a laugh in the clamour of days and of deeds:
  The priests are scattered like chaff, and the rulers broken like
      reeds.

  The high-priest sick from qualms, with his raiment bloodily dashed;
  The thief with branded palms, and the liar with cheeks abashed.

  They are smitten, they tremble greatly, they are pained for their
      pleasant things:
  For the house of the priests made stately, and the might in the mouth
      of the kings.

  They are grieved and greatly afraid; they are taken, they shall not
      flee:
  For the heart of the nations is made as the strength of the springs of
      the sea.

  They were fair in the grace of gold, they walked with delicate feet:
  They were clothed with the cunning of old, and the smell of their
      garments was sweet.

  For the breaking of gold in their hair they halt as a man made lame:
  They are utterly naked and bare; their mouths are bitter with shame.

  Wilt thou judge thy people now, O king that wast found most wise?
  Wilt thou lie any more, O thou whose mouth is emptied of lies?

  Shall God make a pact with thee, till his hook be found in thy sides?
  Wilt thou put back the time of the sea, or the place of the season of
      tides?

  Set a word in thy lips, to stand before God with a word in thy mouth:
  That "the rain shall return in the land, and the tender dew after
      drouth."

  But the arm of the elders is broken, their strength is unbound and
      undone:
  They wait for a sign of a token; they cry, and there cometh none.

  Their moan is in every place, the cry of them filleth the land:
  There is shame in the sight of their face, there is fear in the thews
      of their hand.

  They are girdled about the reins with a curse for the girdle thereon:
  For the noise of the rending of chains the face of their colour is
      gone.

  For the sound of the shouting of men they are grievously stricken at
      heart:
  They are smitten asunder with pain, their bones are smitten apart.

  There is none of them all that is whole; their lips gape open for
      breath;
  They are clothed with sickness of soul, and the shape of the shadow of
      death.

  The wind is thwart in their feet; it is full of the shouting of mirth;
  As one shaketh the sides of a sheet, so it shaketh the ends of the
      earth.

  The sword, the sword is made keen; the iron has opened its mouth;
  The corn is red that was green; it is bound for the sheaves of the
      south.

  The sound of a word was shed, the sound of the wind as a breath,
  In the ears of the souls that were dead, in the dust of the deepness
      of death;

  Where the face of the moon is taken, the ways of the stars undone,
  The light of the whole sky shaken, the light of the face of the sun:

  Where the waters are emptied and broken, the waves of the waters are
      stayed;
  Where God has bound for a token the darkness that maketh afraid;

  Where the sword was covered and hidden, and dust had grown in its
      side,
  A word came forth which was bidden, the crying of one that cried:

  The sides of the two-edged sword shall be bare, and its mouth shall be
      red,
  For the breath of the face of the Lord that is felt in the bones of
      the dead.






    In the fair days when God
    By man as godlike trod,
  And each alike was Greek, alike was free,
    God's lightning spared, they said,
    Alone the happier head
  Whose laurels screened it; fruitless grace for thee,
    To whom the high gods gave of right
  Their thunders and their laurels and their light.

    Sunbeams and bays before
    Our master's servants wore,
  For these Apollo left in all men's lands;
    But far from these ere now
    And watched with jealous brow
  Lay the blind lightnings shut between God's hands,
    And only loosed on slaves and kings
  The terror of the tempest of their wings.

    Born in those younger years
    That shone with storms of spears
  And shook in the wind blown from a dead world's pyre,
    When by her back-blown hair
    Napoleon caught the fair
  And fierce Republic with her feet of fire,
    And stayed with iron words and hands
  Her flight, and freedom in a thousand lands:

    Thou sawest the tides of things
    Close over heads of kings,
  And thine hand felt the thunder, and to thee
    Laurels and lightnings were
    As sunbeams and soft air
  Mixed each in other, or as mist with sea
    Mixed, or as memory with desire,
  Or the lute's pulses with the louder lyre.

    For thee man's spirit stood
    Disrobed of flesh and blood,
  And bare the heart of the most secret hours;
    And to thine hand more tame
    Than birds in winter came
  High hopes and unknown flying forms of powers,
    And from thy table fed, and sang
  Till with the tune men's ears took fire and rang.

    Even all men's eyes and ears
    With fiery sound and tears
  Waxed hot, and cheeks caught flame and eyelid light,
    At those high songs of thine
    That stung the sense like wine,
  Or fell more soft than dew or snow by night,
    Or wailed as in some flooded cave
  Sobs the strong broken spirit of a wave.

    But we, our master, we
    Whose hearts, uplift to thee,
  Ache with the pulse of thy remembered song,
    We ask not nor await
    From the clenched hands of fate,
  As thou, remission of the world's old wrong;
    Respite we ask not, nor release;
  Freedom a man may have, he shall not peace.

    Though thy most fiery hope
    Storm heaven, to set wide ope
  The all-sought-for gate whence God or Chance debars
    All feet of men, all eyes--
    The old night resumes her skies,
  Her hollow hiding-place of clouds and stars,
    Where nought save these is sure in sight;
  And, paven with death, our days are roofed with night.

    One thing we can; to be
    Awhile, as men may, free;
  But not by hope or pleasure the most stern
    Goddess, most awful-eyed,
    Sits, but on either side
  Sit sorrow and the wrath of hearts that burn,
    Sad faith that cannot hope or fear,
  And memory grey with many a flowerless year.

    Not that in stranger's wise
    I lift not loving eyes
  To the fair foster-mother France, that gave
    Beyond the pale fleet foam
    Help to my sires and home,
  Whose great sweet breast could shelter those and save
    Whom from her nursing breasts and hands
  Their land cast forth of old on gentler lands.

    Not without thoughts that ache
    For theirs and for thy sake,
  I, born of exiles, hail thy banished head;
    I whose young song took flight
    Toward the great heat and light
  On me a child from thy far splendour shed,
    From thine high place of soul and song,
  Which, fallen on eyes yet feeble, made them strong.

    Ah, not with lessening love
    For memories born hereof,
  I look to that sweet mother-land, and see
    The old fields and fair full streams,
    And skies, but fled like dreams
  The feet of freedom and the thought of thee;
    And all between the skies and graves
  The mirth of mockers and the shame of slaves.

    She, killed with noisome air,
    Even she! and still so fair,
  Who said "Let there be freedom," and there was
    Freedom; and as a lance
    The fiery eyes of France
  Touched the world's sleep and as a sleep made pass
    Forth of men's heavier ears and eyes
  Smitten with fire and thunder from new skies.

    Are they men's friends indeed
    Who watch them weep and bleed?
  Because thou hast loved us, shall the gods love thee?
    Thou, first of men and friend,
    Seest thou, even thou, the end?
  Thou knowest what hath been, knowest thou what shall be?
    Evils may pass and hopes endure;
  But fate is dim, and all the gods obscure.

    O nursed in airs apart,
    O poet highest of heart,
  Hast thou seen time, who hast seen so many things?
    Are not the years more wise,
    More sad than keenest eyes,
  The years with soundless feet and sounding wings?
    Passing we hear them not, but past
  The clamour of them thrills us, and their blast.

    Thou art chief of us, and lord;
    Thy song is as a sword
  Keen-edged and scented in the blade from flowers;
    Thou art lord and king; but we
    Lift younger eyes, and see
  Less of high hope, less light on wandering hours;
    Hours that have borne men down so long,
  Seen the right fail, and watched uplift the wrong.

    But thine imperial soul,
    As years and ruins roll
  To the same end, and all things and all dreams
    With the same wreck and roar
    Drift on the dim same shore,
  Still in the bitter foam and brackish streams
    Tracks the fresh water-spring to be
  And sudden sweeter fountains in the sea.

    As once the high God bound
    With many a rivet round
  Man's saviour, and with iron nailed him through,
    At the wild end of things,
    Where even his own bird's wings
  Flagged, whence the sea shone like a drop of dew,
    From Caucasus beheld below
  Past fathoms of unfathomable snow;

    So the strong God, the chance
    Central of circumstance,
  Still shows him exile who will not be slave;
    All thy great fame and thee
    Girt by the dim strait sea
  With multitudinous walls of wandering wave;
    Shows us our greatest from his throne
  Fate-stricken, and rejected of his own.

    Yea, he is strong, thou say'st,
    A mystery many-faced,
  The wild beasts know him and the wild birds flee;
    The blind night sees him, death
    Shrinks beaten at his breath,
  And his right hand is heavy on the sea:
    We know he hath made us, and is king;
  We know not if he care for anything.

    Thus much, no more, we know;
    He bade what is be so,
  Bade light be and bade night be, one by one;
    Bade hope and fear, bade ill
    And good redeem and kill,
  Till all men be aweary of the sun
    And his world burn in its own flame
  And bear no witness longer of his name.

    Yet though all this be thus,
    Be those men praised of us
  Who have loved and wrought and sorrowed and not sinned
    For fame or fear or gold,
    Nor waxed for winter cold,
  Nor changed for changes of the worldly wind;
    Praised above men of men be these,
  Till this one world and work we know shall cease.

    Yea, one thing more than this,
    We know that one thing is,
  The splendour of a spirit without blame,
    That not the labouring years
    Blind-born, nor any fears,
  Nor men nor any gods can tire or tame;
    But purer power with fiery breath
  Fills, and exalts above the gulfs of death.

    Praised above men be thou,
    Whose laurel-laden brow,
  Made for the morning, droops not in the night;
    Praised and beloved, that none
    Of all thy great things done
  Flies higher than thy most equal spirit's flight;
    Praised, that nor doubt nor hope could bend
  Earth's loftiest head, found upright to the end.






  Sweet life, if life were stronger,
  Earth clear of years that wrong her,
  Then two things might live longer,
    Two sweeter things than they;
  Delight, the rootless flower,
  And love, the bloomless bower;
  Delight that lives an hour,
    And love that lives a day.

  From evensong to daytime,
  When April melts in Maytime,
  Love lengthens out his playtime,
    Love lessens breath by breath,
  And kiss by kiss grows older
  On listless throat or shoulder
  Turned sideways now, turned colder
    Than life that dreams of death.

  This one thing once worth giving
  Life gave, and seemed worth living;
  Sin sweet beyond forgiving
    And brief beyond regret:
  To laugh and love together
  And weave with foam and feather
  And wind and words the tether
    Our memories play with yet.

  Ah, one thing worth beginning,
  One thread in life worth spinning,
  Ah sweet, one sin worth sinning
    With all the whole soul's will;
  To lull you till one stilled you,
  To kiss you till one killed you,
  To feed you till one filled you,
    Sweet lips, if love could fill;

  To hunt sweet Love and lose him
  Between white arms and bosom,
  Between the bud and blossom,
    Between your throat and chin;
  To say of shame--what is it?
  Of virtue--we can miss it,
  Of sin--we can but kiss it,
    And it's no longer sin:

  To feel the strong soul, stricken
  Through fleshly pulses, quicken
  Beneath swift sighs that thicken,
    Soft hands and lips that smite;
  Lips that no love can tire,
  With hands that sting like fire,
  Weaving the web Desire
    To snare the bird Delight.

  But love so lightly plighted,
  Our love with torch unlighted,
  Paused near us unaffrighted,
    Who found and left him free;
  None, seeing us cloven in sunder,
  Will weep or laugh or wonder;
  Light love stands clear of thunder,
    And safe from winds at sea.

  As, when late larks give warning
  Of dying lights and dawning,
  Night murmurs to the morning,
    "Lie still, O love, lie still;"
  And half her dark limbs cover
  The white limbs of her lover,
  With amorous plumes that hover
    And fervent lips that chill;

  As scornful day represses
  Night's void and vain caresses,
  And from her cloudier tresses
    Unwinds the gold of his,
  With limbs from limbs dividing
  And breath by breath subsiding;
  For love has no abiding,
    But dies before the kiss;

  So hath it been, so be it;
  For who shall live and flee it?
  But look that no man see it
    Or hear it unaware;
  Lest all who love and choose him
  See Love, and so refuse him;
  For all who find him lose him,
    But all have found him fair.





  Cold eyelids that hide like a jewel
    Hard eyes that grow soft for an hour;
  The heavy white limbs, and the cruel
    Red mouth like a venomous flower;
  When these are gone by with their glories,
    What shall rest of thee then, what remain,
  O mystic and sombre Dolores,
    Our Lady of Pain?

  Seven sorrows the priests give their Virgin;
    But thy sins, which are seventy times seven,
  Seven ages would fail thee to purge in,
    And then they would haunt thee in heaven:
  Fierce midnights and famishing morrows,
    And the loves that complete and control
  All the joys of the flesh, all the sorrows
    That wear out the soul.

  O garment not golden but gilded,
    O garden where all men may dwell,
  O tower not of ivory, but builded
    By hands that reach heaven from hell;
  O mystical rose of the mire,
    O house not of gold but of gain,
  O house of unquenchable fire,
    Our Lady of Pain!

  O lips full of lust and of laughter,
    Curled snakes that are fed from my breast,
  Bite hard, lest remembrance come after
    And press with new lips where you pressed.
  For my heart too springs up at the pressure,
    Mine eyelids too moisten and burn;
  Ah, feed me and fill me with pleasure,
    Ere pain come in turn.

  In yesterday's reach and to-morrow's,
    Out of sight though they lie of to-day,
  There have been and there yet shall be sorrows
    That smite not and bite not in play.
  The life and the love thou despisest,
    These hurt us indeed, and in vain,
  O wise among women, and wisest,
    Our Lady of Pain.

  Who gave thee thy wisdom? what stories
    That stung thee, what visions that smote?
  Wert thou pure and a maiden, Dolores,
    When desire took thee first by the throat?
  What bud was the shell of a blossom
    That all men may smell to and pluck?
  What milk fed thee first at what bosom?
    What sins gave thee suck?

  We shift and bedeck and bedrape us,
    Thou art noble and nude and antique;
  Libitina thy mother, Priapus
    Thy father, a Tuscan and Greek.
  We play with light loves in the portal,
    And wince and relent and refrain;
  Loves die, and we know thee immortal,
    Our Lady of Pain.

  Fruits fail and love dies and time ranges;
    Thou art fed with perpetual breath,
  And alive after infinite changes,
    And fresh from the kisses of death;
  Of languors rekindled and rallied,
    Of barren delights and unclean,
  Things monstrous and fruitless, a pallid
    And poisonous queen.

  Could you hurt me, sweet lips, though I hurt you?
    Men touch them, and change in a trice
  The lilies and languors of virtue
    For the raptures and roses of vice;
  Those lie where thy foot on the floor is,
    These crown and caress thee and chain,
  O splendid and sterile Dolores,
    Our Lady of Pain.

  There are sins it may be to discover,
    There are deeds it may be to delight.
  What new work wilt thou find for thy lover,
    What new passions for daytime or night?
  What spells that they know not a word of
    Whose lives are as leaves overblown?
  What tortures undreamt of, unheard of,
    Unwritten, unknown?

  Ah beautiful passionate body
    That never has ached with a heart!
  On thy mouth though the kisses are bloody,
    Though they sting till it shudder and smart,
  More kind than the love we adore is,
    They hurt not the heart or the brain,
  O bitter and tender Dolores,
    Our Lady of Pain.

  As our kisses relax and redouble,
    From the lips and the foam and the fangs
  Shall no new sin be born for men's trouble,
    No dream of impossible pangs?
  With the sweet of the sins of old ages
    Wilt thou satiate thy soul as of yore?
  Too sweet is the rind, say the sages,
    Too bitter the core.

  Hast thou told all thy secrets the last time,
    And bared all thy beauties to one?
  Ah, where shall we go then for pastime,
    If the worst that can be has been done?
  But sweet as the rind was the core is;
    We are fain of thee still, we are fain,
  O sanguine and subtle Dolores,
    Our Lady of Pain.

  By the hunger of change and emotion,
    By the thirst of unbearable things,
  By despair, the twin-born of devotion,
    By the pleasure that winces and stings,
  The delight that consumes the desire,
    The desire that outruns the delight,
  By the cruelty deaf as a fire
    And blind as the night,

  By the ravenous teeth that have smitten
    Through the kisses that blossom and bud,
  By the lips intertwisted and bitten
    Till the foam has a savour of blood,
  By the pulse as it rises and falters,
    By the hands as they slacken and strain,
  I adjure thee, respond from thine altars,
    Our Lady of Pain.

  Wilt thou smile as a woman disdaining
    The light fire in the veins of a boy?
  But he comes to thee sad, without feigning,
    Who has wearied of sorrow and joy;
  Less careful of labour and glory
    Than the elders whose hair has uncurled;
  And young, but with fancies as hoary
    And grey as the world.

  I have passed from the outermost portal
    To the shrine where a sin is a prayer;
  What care though the service be mortal?
    O our Lady of Torture, what care?
  All thine the last wine that I pour is,
    The last in the chalice we drain,
  O fierce and luxurious Dolores,
    Our Lady of Pain.

  All thine the new wine of desire,
    The fruit of four lips as they clung
  Till the hair and the eyelids took fire,
    The foam of a serpentine tongue,
  The froth of the serpents of pleasure,
    More salt than the foam of the sea,
  Now felt as a flame, now at leisure
    As wine shed for me.

  Ah thy people, thy children, thy chosen,
    Marked cross from the womb and perverse!
  They have found out the secret to cozen
    The gods that constrain us and curse;
  They alone, they are wise, and none other;
    Give me place, even me, in their train,
  O my sister, my spouse, and my mother,
    Our Lady of Pain.

  For the crown of our life as it closes
    Is darkness, the fruit thereof dust;
  No thorns go as deep as a rose's,
    And love is more cruel than lust.
  Time turns the old days to derision,
    Our loves into corpses or wives;
  And marriage and death and division
    Make barren our lives.

  And pale from the past we draw nigh thee,
    And satiate with comfortless hours;
  And we know thee, how all men belie thee,
    And we gather the fruit of thy flowers;
  The passion that slays and recovers,
    The pangs and the kisses that rain
  On the lips and the limbs of thy lovers,
    Our Lady of Pain.

  The desire of thy furious embraces
    Is more than the wisdom of years,
  On the blossom though blood lie in traces,
    Though the foliage be sodden with tears.
  For the lords in whose keeping the door is
    That opens on all who draw breath
  Gave the cypress to love, my Dolores,
    The myrtle to death.

  And they laughed, changing hands in the measure,
    And they mixed and made peace after strife;
  Pain melted in tears, and was pleasure;
    Death tingled with blood, and was life.
  Like lovers they melted and tingled,
    In the dusk of thine innermost fane;
  In the darkness they murmured and mingled,
    Our Lady of Pain.

  In a twilight where virtues are vices,
    In thy chapels, unknown of the sun,
  To a tune that enthralls and entices,
    They were wed, and the twain were as one.
  For the tune from thine altar hath sounded
    Since God bade the world's work begin,
  And the fume of thine incense abounded,
    To sweeten the sin.

  Love listens, and paler than ashes,
    Through his curls as the crown on them slips,
  Lifts languid wet eyelids and lashes,
    And laughs with insatiable lips.
  Thou shalt hush him with heavy caresses,
    With music that scares the profane;
  Thou shalt darken his eyes with thy tresses,
    Our Lady of Pain.

  Thou shalt blind his bright eyes though he wrestle,
    Thou shalt chain his light limbs though he strive;
  In his lips all thy serpents shall nestle,
    In his hands all thy cruelties thrive.
  In the daytime thy voice shall go through him,
    In his dreams he shall feel thee and ache;
  Thou shalt kindle by night and subdue him
    Asleep and awake.

  Thou shalt touch and make redder his roses
    With juice not of fruit nor of bud;
  When the sense in the spirit reposes,
    Thou shalt quicken the soul through the blood.
  Thine, thine the one grace we implore is,
    Who would live and not languish or feign,
  O sleepless and deadly Dolores,
    Our Lady of Pain.

  Dost thou dream, in a respite of slumber,
    In a lull of the fires of thy life,
  Of the days without name, without number,
    When thy will stung the world into strife;
  When, a goddess, the pulse of thy passion
    Smote kings as they revelled in Rome;
  And they hailed thee re-risen, O Thalassian,
    Foam-white, from the foam?

  When thy lips had such lovers to flatter;
    When the city lay red from thy rods,
  And thine hands were as arrows to scatter
    The children of change and their gods;
  When the blood of thy foemen made fervent
    A sand never moist from the main,
  As one smote them, their lord and thy servant,
    Our Lady of Pain.

  On sands by the storm never shaken,
    Nor wet from the washing of tides;
  Nor by foam of the waves overtaken,
    Nor winds that the thunder bestrides;
  But red from the print of thy paces,
    Made smooth for the world and its lords,
  Ringed round with a flame of fair faces,
    And splendid with swords.

  There the gladiator, pale for thy pleasure,
    Drew bitter and perilous breath;
  There torments laid hold on the treasure
    Of limbs too delicious for death;
  When thy gardens were lit with live torches;
    When the world was a steed for thy rein;
  When the nations lay prone in thy porches,
    Our Lady of Pain.

  When, with flame all around him aspirant,
    Stood flushed, as a harp-player stands,
  The implacable beautiful tyrant,
    Rose-crowned, having death in his hands;
  And a sound as the sound of loud water
    Smote far through the flight of the fires,
  And mixed with the lightning of slaughter
   A thunder of lyres.

  Dost thou dream of what was and no more is,
    The old kingdoms of earth and the kings?
  Dost thou hunger for these things, Dolores,
    For these, in a world of new things?
  But thy bosom no fasts could emaciate,
    No hunger compel to complain
  Those lips that no bloodshed could satiate,
    Our Lady of Pain.

  As of old when the world's heart was lighter,
    Through thy garments the grace of thee glows,
  The white wealth of thy body made whiter
    By the blushes of amorous blows,
  And seamed with sharp lips and fierce fingers,
    And branded by kisses that bruise;
  When all shall be gone that now lingers,
    Ah, what shall we lose?

  Thou wert fair in the fearless old fashion,
    And thy limbs are as melodies yet,
  And move to the music of passion
    With lithe and lascivious regret.
  What ailed us, O gods, to desert you
    For creeds that refuse and restrain?
  Come down and redeem us from virtue,
    Our Lady of Pain.

  All shrines that were Vestal are flameless,
    But the flame has not fallen from this;
  Though obscure be the god, and though nameless
    The eyes and the hair that we kiss;
  Low fires that love sits by and forges
    Fresh heads for his arrows and thine;
  Hair loosened and soiled in mid orgies
    With kisses and wine.

  Thy skin changes country and colour,
    And shrivels or swells to a snake's.
  Let it brighten and bloat and grow duller,
    We know it, the flames and the flakes,
  Red brands on it smitten and bitten,
    Round skies where a star is a stain,
  And the leaves with thy litanies written,
    Our Lady of Pain.

  On thy bosom though many a kiss be,
    There are none such as knew it of old.
  Was it Alciphron once or Arisbe,
    Male ringlets or feminine gold,
  That thy lips met with under the statue,
    Whence a look shot out sharp after thieves
  From the eyes of the garden-god at you
    Across the fig-leaves?

  Then still, through dry seasons and moister,
    One god had a wreath to his shrine;
  Then love was the pearl of his oyster,[4]
    And Venus rose red out of wine.
  We have all done amiss, choosing rather
    Such loves as the wise gods disdain;
  Intercede for us thou with thy father,
    Our Lady of Pain.

  In spring he had crowns of his garden,
    Red corn in the heat of the year,
  Then hoary green olives that harden
    When the grape-blossom freezes with fear;
  And milk-budded myrtles with Venus
    And vine-leaves with Bacchus he trod;
  And ye said, "We have seen, he hath seen us,
    A visible God."

  What broke off the garlands that girt you?
    What sundered you spirit and clay?
  Weak sins yet alive are as virtue
    To the strength of the sins of that day.
  For dried is the blood of thy lover,
    Ipsithilla, contracted the vein;
  Cry aloud, "Will he rise and recover,
    Our Lady of Pain?"

  Cry aloud; for the old world is broken:
    Cry out; for the Phrygian is priest,
  And rears not the bountiful token
    And spreads not the fatherly feast.
  From the midmost of Ida, from shady
    Recesses that murmur at morn,
  They have brought and baptized her, Our Lady,
    A goddess new-born.

  And the chaplets of old are above us,
    And the oyster-bed teems out of reach;
  Old poets outsing and outlove us,
    And Catullus makes mouths at our speech.
  Who shall kiss, in thy father's own city,
    With such lips as he sang with, again?
  Intercede for us all of thy pity,
    Our Lady of Pain.

  Out of Dindymus heavily laden
    Her lions draw bound and unfed
  A mother, a mortal, a maiden,
    A queen over death and the dead.
  She is cold, and her habit is lowly,
    Her temple of branches and sods;
  Most fruitful and virginal, holy,
    A mother of gods.

  She hath wasted with fire thine high places,
    She hath hidden and marred and made sad
  The fair limbs of the Loves, the fair faces
    Of gods that were goodly and glad.
  She slays, and her hands are not bloody;
    She moves as a moon in the wane,
  White-robed, and thy raiment is ruddy,
    Our Lady of Pain.

  They shall pass and their places be taken,
    The gods and the priests that are pure.
  They shall pass, and shalt thou not be shaken?
    They shall perish, and shalt thou endure?
  Death laughs, breathing close and relentless
    In the nostrils and eyelids of lust,
  With a pinch in his fingers of scentless
    And delicate dust.

  But the worm shall revive thee with kisses;
    Thou shalt change and transmute as a god,
  As the rod to a serpent that hisses,
    As the serpent again to a rod.
  Thy life shall not cease though thou doff it;
    Thou shalt live until evil be slain,
  And good shall die first, said thy prophet,
    Our Lady of Pain.

  Did he lie? did he laugh? does he know it,
    Now he lies out of reach, out of breath,
  Thy prophet, thy preacher, thy poet,
    Sin's child by incestuous Death?
  Did he find out in fire at his waking,
    Or discern as his eyelids lost light,
  When the bands of the body were breaking
    And all came in sight?

  Who has known all the evil before us,
    Or the tyrannous secrets of time?
  Though we match not the dead men that bore us
    At a song, at a kiss, at a crime--
  Though the heathen outface and outlive us,
    And our lives and our longings are twain--
  Ah, forgive us our virtues, forgive us,
    Our Lady of Pain.

  Who are we that embalm and embrace thee
    With spices and savours of song?
  What is time, that his children should face thee?
    What am I, that my lips do thee wrong?
  I could hurt thee--but pain would delight thee;
    Or caress thee--but love would repel;
  And the lovers whose lips would excite thee
    Are serpents in hell.

  Who now shall content thee as they did,
    Thy lovers, when temples were built
  And the hair of the sacrifice braided
    And the blood of the sacrifice spilt,
  In Lampsacus fervent with faces,
    In Aphaca red from thy reign,
  Who embraced thee with awful embraces,
    Our Lady of Pain?

  Where are they, Cotytto or Venus,
    Astarte or Ashtaroth, where?
  Do their hands as we touch come between us?
    Is the breath of them hot in thy hair?
  From their lips have thy lips taken fever,
    With the blood of their bodies grown red?
  Hast thou left upon earth a believer
    If these men are dead?

  They were purple of raiment and golden,
    Filled full of thee, fiery with wine,
  Thy lovers, in haunts unbeholden,
    In marvellous chambers of thine.
  They are fled, and their footprints escape us,
    Who appraise thee, adore, and abstain,
  O daughter of Death and Priapus,
    Our Lady of Pain.

  What ails us to fear overmeasure,
    To praise thee with timorous breath,
  O mistress and mother of pleasure,
    The one thing as certain as death?
  We shall change as the things that we cherish,
    Shall fade as they faded before,
  As foam upon water shall perish,
    As sand upon shore.

  We shall know what the darkness discovers,
    If the grave-pit be shallow or deep;
  And our fathers of old, and our lovers,
    We shall know if they sleep not or sleep.
  We shall see whether hell be not heaven,
    Find out whether tares be not grain,
  And the joys of thee seventy times seven,
    Our Lady of Pain.






  Here, where the world is quiet;
    Here, where all trouble seems
  Dead winds' and spent waves' riot
    In doubtful dreams of dreams;
  I watch the green field growing
    For reaping folk and sowing,
  For harvest-time and mowing,
    A sleepy world of streams.

  I am tired of tears and laughter,
    And men that laugh and weep;
  Of what may come hereafter
    For men that sow to reap:
  I am weary of days and hours,
    Blown buds of barren flowers,
  Desires and dreams and powers
    And everything but sleep.

  Here life has death for neighbour,
    And far from eye or ear
  Wan waves and wet winds labour,
    Weak ships and spirits steer;
  They drive adrift, and whither
    They wot not who make thither;
  But no such winds blow hither,
    And no such things grow here.

  No growth of moor or coppice,
    No heather-flower or vine,
  But bloomless buds of poppies,
    Green grapes of Proserpine,
  Pale beds of blowing rushes
  Where no leaf blooms or blushes
  Save this whereout she crushes
    For dead men deadly wine.

  Pale, without name or number,
    In fruitless fields of corn,
  They bow themselves and slumber
    All night till light is born;
  And like a soul belated,
  In hell and heaven unmated,
  By cloud and mist abated
    Comes out of darkness morn.

  Though one were strong as seven,
    He too with death shall dwell,
  Nor wake with wings in heaven,
    Nor weep for pains in hell;
  Though one were fair as roses,
  His beauty clouds and closes;
  And well though love reposes,
    In the end it is not well.

  Pale, beyond porch and portal,
    Crowned with calm leaves, she stands
  Who gathers all things mortal
    With cold immortal hands;
  Her languid lips are sweeter
  Than love's who fears to greet her
  To men that mix and meet her
    From many times and lands.

  She waits for each and other,
    She waits for all men born;
  Forgets the earth her mother,
    The life of fruits and corn;
  And spring and seed and swallow
  Take wing for her and follow
  Where summer song rings hollow
    And flowers are put to scorn.

  There go the loves that wither,
    The old loves with wearier wings;
  And all dead years draw thither,
    And all disastrous things;
  Dead dreams of days forsaken,
  Blind buds that snows have shaken,
  Wild leaves that winds have taken,
    Red strays of ruined springs.

  We are not sure of sorrow,
    And joy was never sure;
  To-day will die to-morrow;
    Time stoops to no man's lure;
  And love, grown faint and fretful,
  With lips but half regretful
  Sighs, and with eyes forgetful
    Weeps that no loves endure.

  From too much love of living,
    From hope and fear set free,
  We thank with brief thanksgiving
    Whatever gods may be
  That no life lives for ever;
  That dead men rise up never;
  That even the weariest river
    Winds somewhere safe to sea.

  Then star nor sun shall waken,
    Nor any change of light:
  Nor sound of waters shaken,
    Nor any sound or sight:
  Nor wintry leaves nor vernal,
  Nor days nor things diurnal;
  Only the sleep eternal
    In an eternal night.





  Out of the golden remote wild west where the sea without shore is,
    Full of the sunset, and sad, if at all, with the fulness of joy,
  As a wind sets in with the autumn that blows from the region of
        stories,
    Blows with a perfume of songs and of memories beloved from a boy,
  Blows from the capes of the past oversea to the bays of the present,
    Filled as with shadow of sound with the pulse of invisible feet,
  Far out to the shallows and straits of the future, by rough ways or
        pleasant,
    Is it thither the wind's wings beat? is it hither to me, O my sweet?
  For thee, in the stream of the deep tide-wind blowing in with the
        water,
    Thee I behold as a bird borne in with the wind from the west,
  Straight from the sunset, across white waves whence rose as a daughter
    Venus thy mother, in years when the world was a water at rest.
  Out of the distance of dreams, as a dream that abides after slumber,
    Strayed from the fugitive flock of the night, when the moon overhead
  Wanes in the wan waste heights of the heaven, and stars without number
    Die without sound, and are spent like lamps that are burnt by the
        dead,
  Comes back to me, stays by me, lulls me with touch of forgotten
        caresses,
    One warm dream clad about with a fire as of life that endures;
  The delight of thy face, and the sound of thy feet, and the wind of
        thy tresses,
    And all of a man that regrets, and all of a maid that allures.
  But thy bosom is warm for my face and profound as a manifold flower,
    Thy silence as music, thy voice as an odour that fades in a flame;
  Not a dream, not a dream is the kiss of thy mouth, and the bountiful
        hour
    That makes me forget what was sin, and would make me forget were it
        shame.
  Thine eyes that are quiet, thine hands that are tender, thy lips that
        are loving,
    Comfort and cool me as dew in the dawn of a moon like a dream;
  And my heart yearns baffled and blind, moved vainly toward thee, and
        moving
    As the refluent seaweed moves in the languid exuberant stream,
  Fair as a rose is on earth, as a rose under water in prison,
    That stretches and swings to the slow passionate pulse of the sea,
  Closed up from the air and the sun, but alive, as a ghost rearisen,
    Pale as the love that revives as a ghost rearisen in me.
  From the bountiful infinite west, from the happy memorial places
    Full of the stately repose and the lordly delight of the dead,
  Where the fortunate islands are lit with the light of ineffable faces,
    And the sound of a sea without wind is about them, and sunset is
        red,
  Come back to redeem and release me from love that recalls and
        represses,
    That cleaves to my flesh as a flame, till the serpent has eaten his
        fill;
  From the bitter delights of the dark, and the feverish, the furtive
        caresses
    That murder the youth in a man or ever his heart have its will.
  Thy lips cannot laugh and thine eyes cannot weep; thou art pale as a
        rose is,
    Paler and sweeter than leaves that cover the blush of the bud;
  And the heart of the flower is compassion, and pity the core it
        encloses,
    Pity, not love, that is born of the breath and decays with the
        blood.
  As the cross that a wild nun clasps till the edge of it bruises her
        bosom,
    So love wounds as we grasp it, and blackens and burns as a flame;
  I have loved overmuch in my life; when the live bud bursts with the
        blossom,
    Bitter as ashes or tears is the fruit, and the wine thereof shame.
  As a heart that its anguish divides is the green bud cloven asunder;
    As the blood of a man self-slain is the flush of the leaves that
        allure;
  And the perfume as poison and wine to the brain, a delight and a
        wonder;
    And the thorns are too sharp for a boy, too slight for a man, to
        endure.
  Too soon did I love it, and lost love's rose; and I cared not for
        glory's:
    Only the blossoms of sleep and of pleasure were mixed in my hair.
  Was it myrtle or poppy thy garland was woven with, O my Dolores?
    Was it pallor of slumber, or blush as of blood, that I found in thee
        fair?
  For desire is a respite from love, and the flesh not the heart is her
        fuel;
    She was sweet to me once, who am fled and escaped from the rage of
        her reign;
  Who behold as of old time at hand as I turn, with her mouth growing
        cruel,
    And flushed as with wine with the blood of her lovers, Our Lady of
        Pain.
  Low down where the thicket is thicker with thorns than with leaves in
        the summer,
    In the brake is a gleaming of eyes and a hissing of tongues that I
        knew;
  And the lithe long throats of her snakes reach round her, their mouths
        overcome her,
    And her lips grow cool with their foam, made moist as a desert with
        dew.
  With the thirst and the hunger of lust though her beautiful lips be so
        bitter,
    With the cold foul foam of the snakes they soften and redden and
        smile;
  And her fierce mouth sweetens, her eyes wax wide and her eyelashes
        glitter,
    And she laughs with a savour of blood in her face, and a savour of
        guile.
  She laughs, and her hands reach hither, her hair blows hither and
        hisses,
    As a low-lit flame in a wind, back-blown till it shudder and leap;
  Let her lips not again lay hold on my soul, nor her poisonous kisses,
    To consume it alive and divide from thy bosom, Our Lady of Sleep.
  Ah daughter of sunset and slumber, if now it return into prison,
    Who shall redeem it anew? but we, if thou wilt, let us fly;
  Let us take to us, now that the white skies thrill with a moon
        unarisen,
    Swift horses of fear or of love, take flight and depart and not die.
  They are swifter than dreams, they are stronger than death; there is
        none that hath ridden,
    None that shall ride in the dim strange ways of his life as we ride;
  By the meadows of memory, the highlands of hope, and the shore that is
        hidden,
    Where life breaks loud and unseen, a sonorous invisible tide;
  By the sands where sorrow has trodden, the salt pools bitter and
        sterile,
    By the thundering reef and the low sea-wall and the channel of
        years,
  Our wild steeds press on the night, strain hard through pleasure and
        peril,
    Labour and listen and pant not or pause for the peril that nears;
  And the sound of them trampling the way cleaves night as an arrow
        asunder,
    And slow by the sand-hill and swift by the down with its glimpses of
        grass,
  Sudden and steady the music, as eight hoofs trample and thunder,
    Rings in the ear of the low blind wind of the night as we pass;
  Shrill shrieks in our faces the blind bland air that was mute as a
        maiden,
    Stung into storm by the speed of our passage, and deaf where we
        past;
  And our spirits too burn as we bound, thine holy but mine heavy-laden,
    As we burn with the fire of our flight; ah love, shall we win at the
        last?







  We are in love's land to-day;
      Where shall we go?
  Love, shall we start or stay,
      Or sail or row?
  There's many a wind and way,
  And never a May but May;
  We are in love's hand to-day;
      Where shall we go?

  Our landwind is the breath
  Of sorrows kissed to death
      And joys that were;
  Our ballast is a rose;
  Our way lies where God knows
      And love knows where.
            We are in love's hand to-day--

  Our seamen are fledged Loves,
  Our masts are bills of doves,
      Our decks fine gold;
  Our ropes are dead maids' hair,
  Our stores are love-shafts fair
      And manifold.
            We are in love's land to-day--

  Where shall we land you, sweet?
  On fields of strange men's feet,
      Or fields near home?
  Or where the fire-flowers blow,
  Or where the flowers of snow
      Or flowers of foam?
            We are in love's hand to-day--

  Land me, she says, where love
  Shows but one shaft, one dove,
      One heart, one hand.
  --A shore like that, my dear,
  Lies where no man will steer,
      No maiden land.








  When the fields catch flower
    And the underwood is green,
  And from bower unto bower
    The songs of the birds begin,
    I sing with sighing between.
  When I laugh and sing,
    I am heavy at heart for my sin;
  I am sad in the spring
    For my love that I shall not win,
  For a foolish thing.

  This profit I have of my woe,
    That I know, as I sing,
  I know he will needs have it so
    Who is master and king,
    Who is lord of the spirit of spring.
  I will serve her and will not spare
    Till her pity awake
  Who is good, who is pure, who is fair,
    Even her for whose sake
  Love hath ta'en me and slain unaware.

  O my lord, O Love,
    I have laid my life at thy feet;
  Have thy will thereof,
    Do as it please thee with it,
    For what shall please thee is sweet.
  I am come unto thee
    To do thee service, O Love;
  Yet cannot I see
    Thou wilt take any pity thereof,
  Any mercy on me.

  But the grace I have long time sought
    Comes never in sight,
  If in her it abideth not,
    Through thy mercy and might,
    Whose heart is the world's delight.
  Thou hast sworn without fail I shall die,
    For my heart is set
  On what hurts me, I wot not why,
    But cannot forget
  What I love, what I sing for and sigh.

  She is worthy of praise,
    For this grief of her giving is worth
  All the joy of my days
    That lie between death's day and birth,
    All the lordship of things upon earth.
  Nay, what have I said?
    I would not be glad if I could;
  My dream and my dread
    Are of her, and for her sake I would
  That my life were fled.

  Lo, sweet, if I durst not pray to you,
    Then were I dead;
  If I sang not a little to say to you,
    (Could it be said)
    O my love, how my heart would be fed;
  Ah sweet who hast hold of my heart,
    For thy love's sake I live,
  Do but tell me, ere either depart,
    What a lover may give
  For a woman so fair as thou art.


  The lovers that disbelieve,
    False rumours shall grieve
  And evil-speaking shall part.






  A month or twain to live on honeycomb
  Is pleasant; but one tires of scented time,
  Cold sweet recurrence of accepted rhyme,
  And that strong purple under juice and foam
  Where the wine's heart has burst;
  Nor feel the latter kisses like the first.

  Once yet, this poor one time; I will not pray
  Even to change the bitterness of it,
  The bitter taste ensuing on the sweet,
  To make your tears fall where your soft hair lay
  All blurred and heavy in some perfumed wise
  Over my face and eyes.

  And yet who knows what end the scythd wheat
  Makes of its foolish poppies' mouths of red?
  These were not sown, these are not harvested,
  They grow a month and are cast under feet
  And none has care thereof,
  As none has care of a divided love.

  I know each shadow of your lips by rote,
  Each change of love in eyelids and eyebrows;
  The fashion of fair temples tremulous
  With tender blood, and colour of your throat;
  I know not how love is gone out of this,
  Seeing that all was his.

  Love's likeness there endures upon all these:
  But out of these one shall not gather love.
  Day hath not strength nor the night shade enough
  To make love whole and fill his lips with ease,
  As some bee-builded cell
  Feels at filled lips the heavy honey swell.

  I know not how this last month leaves your hair
  Less full of purple colour and hid spice,
  And that luxurious trouble of closed eyes
  Is mixed with meaner shadow and waste care;
  And love, kissed out by pleasure, seems not yet
  Worth patience to regret.







  A little marsh-plant, yellow green,
  And pricked at lip with tender red.
  Tread close, and either way you tread
  Some faint black water jets between
  Lest you should bruise the curious head.

  A live thing maybe; who shall know?
  The summer knows and suffers it;
  For the cool moss is thick and sweet
  Each side, and saves the blossom so
  That it lives out the long June heat.

  The deep scent of the heather burns
  About it; breathless though it be,
  Bow down and worship; more than we
  Is the least flower whose life returns,
  Least weed renascent in the sea.

  We are vexed and cumbered in earth's sight
  With wants, with many memories;
  These see their mother what she is,
  Glad-growing, till August leave more bright
  The apple-coloured cranberries.

  Wind blows and bleaches the strong grass,
  Blown all one way to shelter it
  From trample of strayed kine, with feet
  Felt heavier than the moorhen was,
  Strayed up past patches of wild wheat.

  You call it sundew: how it grows,
  If with its colour it have breath,
  If life taste sweet to it, if death
  Pain its soft petal, no man knows:
  Man has no sight or sense that saith.

  My sundew, grown of gentle days,
  In these green miles the spring begun
  Thy growth ere April had half done
  With the soft secret of her ways
  Or June made ready for the sun.

  O red-lipped mouth of marsh-flower,
  I have a secret halved with thee.
  The name that is love's name to me
  Thou knowest, and the face of her
  Who is my festival to see.

  The hard sun, as thy petals knew,
  Coloured the heavy moss-water:
  Thou wert not worth green midsummer
  Nor fit to live to August blue,
  O sundew, not remembering her.






  What shall be said between us here
    Among the downs, between the trees,
  In fields that knew our feet last year,
    In sight of quiet sands and seas,
    This year, Flise?

  Who knows what word were best to say?
    For last year's leaves lie dead and red
  On this sweet day, in this green May,
    And barren corn makes bitter bread.
    What shall be said?

  Here as last year the fields begin,
    A fire of flowers and glowing grass;
  The old fields we laughed and lingered in,
    Seeing each our souls in last year's glass,
    Flise, alas!

  Shall we not laugh, shall we not weep,
    Not we, though this be as it is?
  For love awake or love asleep
    Ends in a laugh, a dream, a kiss,
    A song like this.

  I that have slept awake, and you
    Sleep, who last year were well awake,
  Though love do all that love can do,
    My heart will never ache or break
    For your heart's sake.

  The great sea, faultless as a flower,
    Throbs, trembling under beam and breeze,
  And laughs with love of the amorous hour.
    I found you fairer once, Flise,
    Than flowers or seas.

  We played at bondsman and at queen;
    But as the days change men change too;
  I find the grey sea's notes of green,
    The green sea's fervent flakes of blue,
    More fair than you.

  Your beauty is not over fair
    Now in mine eyes, who am grown up wise.
  The smell of flowers in all your hair
    Allures not now; no sigh replies
    If your heart sighs.

  But you sigh seldom, you sleep sound,
    You find love's new name good enough.
  Less sweet I find it than I found
    The sweetest name that ever love
    Grew weary of.

  My snake with bright bland eyes, my snake
    Grown tame and glad to be caressed,
  With lips athirst for mine to slake
    Their tender fever! who had guessed
    You loved me best?

  I had died for this last year, to know
    You loved me. Who shall turn on fate?
  I care not if love come or go
    Now, though your love seek mine for mate.
    It is too late.

  The dust of many strange desires
    Lies deep between us; in our eyes
  Dead smoke of perishable fires
    Flickers, a fume in air and skies,
    A steam of sighs.

  You loved me and you loved me not;
    A little, much, and overmuch.
  Will you forget as I forgot?
    Let all dead things lie dead; none such
    Are soft to touch.

  I love you and I do not love,
    Too much, a little, not at all;
  Too much, and never yet enough.
    Birds quick to fledge and fly at call
    Are quick to fall.

  And these love longer now than men,
    And larger loves than ours are these.
  No diver brings up love again
    Dropped once, my beautiful Flise,
    In such cold seas.

  Gone deeper than all plummets sound,
    Where in the dim green dayless day
  The life of such dead things lies bound
    As the sea feeds on, wreck and stray
    And castaway.

  Can I forget? yea, that can I,
    And that can all men; so will you,
  Alive, or later, when you die.
    Ah, but the love you plead was true?
    Was mine not too?

  I loved you for that name of yours
    Long ere we met, and long enough.
  Now that one thing of all endures--
    The sweetest name that ever love
    Waxed weary of.

  Like colours in the sea, like flowers,
    Like a cat's splendid circled eyes
  That wax and wane with love for hours,
    Green as green flame, blue-grey like skies,
    And soft like sighs--

  And all these only like your name,
    And your name full of all of these.
  I say it, and it sounds the same--
    Save that I say it now at ease,
    Your name, Flise.

  I said "she must be swift and white,
    And subtly warm, and half perverse,
  And sweet like sharp soft fruit to bite,
    And like a snake's love lithe and fierce."
    Men have guessed worse.

  What was the song I made of you
    Here where the grass forgets our feet
  As afternoon forgets the dew?
    Ah that such sweet things should be fleet,
    Such fleet things sweet!

  As afternoon forgets the dew,
    As time in time forgets all men,
  As our old place forgets us two,
    Who might have turned to one thing then
    But not again.

          O lips that mine have grown into
            Like April's kissing May,
          O fervent eyelids letting through
          Those eyes the greenest of things blue,
            The bluest of things grey,

          If you were I and I were you,
            How could I love you, say?
          How could the roseleaf love the rue,
          The day love nightfall and her dew,
            Though night may love the day?

  You loved it may be more than I;
    We know not; love is hard to seize.
  And all things are not good to try;
    And lifelong loves the worst of these
    For us, Flise.

  Ah, take the season and have done,
    Love well the hour and let it go:
  Two souls may sleep and wake up one,
    Or dream they wake and find it so,
    And then--you know.

  Kiss me once hard as though a flame
    Lay on my lips and made them fire;
  The same lips now, and not the same;
    What breath shall fill and re-inspire
    A dead desire?

  The old song sounds hollower in mine ear
    Than thin keen sounds of dead men's speech--
  A noise one hears and would not hear;
    Too strong to die, too weak to reach
    From wave to beach.

  We stand on either side the sea,
    Stretch hands, blow kisses, laugh and lean
  I toward you, you toward me;
    But what hears either save the keen
    Grey sea between?

  A year divides us, love from love,
    Though you love now, though I loved then.
  The gulf is strait, but deep enough;
    Who shall recross, who among men
    Shall cross again?

  Love was a jest last year, you said,
    And what lives surely, surely dies.
  Even so; but now that love is dead,
    Shall love rekindle from wet eyes,
    From subtle sighs?

  For many loves are good to see;
    Mutable loves, and loves perverse;
  But there is nothing, nor shall be,
    So sweet, so wicked, but my verse
    Can dream of worse.

  For we that sing and you that love
    Know that which man may, only we.
  The rest live under us; above,
    Live the great gods in heaven, and see
    What things shall be.

  So this thing is and must be so;
    For man dies, and love also dies.
  Though yet love's ghost moves to and fro
    The sea-green mirrors of your eyes,
    And laughs, and lies.

  Eyes coloured like a water-flower,
    And deeper than the green sea's glass;
  Eyes that remember one sweet hour--
    In vain we swore it should not pass;
    In vain, alas!

  Ah my Flise, if love or sin,
    If shame or fear could hold it fast,
  Should we not hold it? Love wears thin,
    And they laugh well who laugh the last.
    Is it not past?

  The gods, the gods are stronger; time
    Falls down before them, all men's knees
  Bow, all men's prayers and sorrows climb
    Like incense towards them; yea, for these
    Are gods, Flise.

  Immortal are they, clothed with powers,
    Not to be comforted at all;
  Lords over all the fruitless hours;
    Too great to appease, too high to appal,
    Too far to call.

  For none shall move the most high gods,
    Who are most sad, being cruel; none
  Shall break or take away the rods
    Wherewith they scourge us, not as one
    That smites a son.

  By many a name of many a creed
    We have called upon them, since the sands
  Fell through time's hour-glass first, a seed
    Of life; and out of many lands
    Have we stretched hands.

  When have they heard us? who hath known
    Their faces, climbed unto their feet,
  Felt them and found them? Laugh or groan,
    Doth heaven remurmur and repeat
    Sad sounds or sweet?

  Do the stars answer? in the night
    Have ye found comfort? or by day
  Have ye seen gods? What hope, what light,
    Falls from the farthest starriest way
    On you that pray?

  Are the skies wet because we weep,
    Or fair because of any mirth?
  Cry out; they are gods; perchance they sleep;
    Cry; thou shalt know what prayers are worth,
    Thou dust and earth.

  O earth, thou art fair; O dust, thou art great;
    O laughing lips and lips that mourn,
  Pray, till ye feel the exceeding weight
    Of God's intolerable scorn,
    Not to be borne.

  Behold, there is no grief like this;
    The barren blossom of thy prayer,
  Thou shalt find out how sweet it is.
    O fools and blind, what seek ye there,
    High up in the air?

  Ye must have gods, the friends of men,
    Merciful gods, compassionate,
  And these shall answer you again.
    Will ye beat always at the gate,
    Ye fools of fate?

  Ye fools and blind; for this is sure,
    That all ye shall not live, but die.
  Lo, what thing have ye found endure?
    Or what thing have ye found on high
    Past the blind sky?

  The ghosts of words and dusty dreams,
    Old memories, faiths infirm and dead.
  Ye fools; for which among you deems
    His prayer can alter green to red
    Or stones to bread?

  Why should ye bear with hopes and fears
    Till all these things be drawn in one,
  The sound of iron-footed years,
    And all the oppression that is done
    Under the sun?

  Ye might end surely, surely pass
    Out of the multitude of things,
  Under the dust, beneath the grass,
    Deep in dim death, where no thought stings,
    No record clings.

  No memory more of love or hate,
    No trouble, nothing that aspires,
  No sleepless labour thwarting fate,
    And thwarted; where no travail tires,
    Where no faith fires.

  All passes, nought that has been is,
    Things good and evil have one end.
  Can anything be otherwise
    Though all men swear all things would mend
    With God to friend?

  Can ye beat off one wave with prayer,
    Can ye move mountains? bid the flower
  Take flight and turn to a bird in the air?
    Can ye hold fast for shine or shower
    One wingless hour?

  Ah sweet, and we too, can we bring
    One sigh back, bid one smile revive?
  Can God restore one ruined thing,
    Or he who slays our souls alive
    Make dead things thrive?

  Two gifts perforce he has given us yet,
    Though sad things stay and glad things fly;
  Two gifts he has given us, to forget
    All glad and sad things that go by,
    And then to die.

  We know not whether death be good,
    But life at least it will not be:
  Men will stand saddening as we stood,
    Watch the same fields and skies as we
    And the same sea.

  Let this be said between us here,
    One love grows green when one turns grey;
  This year knows nothing of last year;
    To-morrow has no more to say
    To yesterday.

  Live and let live, as I will do,
    Love and let love, and so will I.
  But, sweet, for me no more with you:
    Not while I live, not though I die.
    Goodnight, goodbye.







  In the greenest growth of the Maytime,
    I rode where the woods were wet,
  Between the dawn and the daytime;
    The spring was glad that we met.

  There was something the season wanted,
    Though the ways and the woods smelt sweet;
  The breath at your lips that panted,
  The pulse of the grass at your feet.

  You came, and the sun came after,
    And the green grew golden above;
  And the flag-flowers lightened with laughter,
    And the meadow-sweet shook with love.

  Your feet in the full-grown grasses
    Moved soft as a weak wind blows;
  You passed me as April passes,
    With face made out of a rose.

  By the stream where the stems were slender,
    Your bright foot paused at the sedge;
  It might be to watch the tender
    Light leaves in the springtime hedge,

  On boughs that the sweet month blanches
    With flowery frost of May:
  It might be a bird in the branches,
    It might be a thorn in the way.

  I waited to watch you linger
    With foot drawn back from the dew,
  Till a sunbeam straight like a finger
    Struck sharp through the leaves at you.

  And a bird overhead sang _Follow_,
    And a bird to the right sang _Here_;
  And the arch of the leaves was hollow,
    And the meaning of May was clear.

  I saw where the sun's hand pointed,
    I knew what the bird's note said;
  By the dawn and the dewfall anointed,
    You were queen by the gold on your head.

  As the glimpse of a burnt-out ember
    Recalls a regret of the sun,
  I remember, forget, and remember
    What Love saw done and undone.

  I remember the way we parted,
    The day and the way we met;
  You hoped we were both broken-hearted,
    And knew we should both forget.

  And May with her world in flower
    Seemed still to murmur and smile
  As you murmured and smiled for an hour;
    I saw you turn at the stile.

  A hand like a white wood-blossom
    You lifted, and waved, and passed,
  With head hung down to the bosom,
    And pale, as it seemed, at last.

  And the best and the worst of this is
    That neither is most to blame
  If you've forgotten my kisses
    And I've forgotten your name.






  In the month of the long decline of roses
  I, beholding the summer dead before me,
  Set my face to the sea and journeyed silent,
  Gazing eagerly where above the sea-mark
  Flame as fierce as the fervid eyes of lions
  Half divided the eyelids of the sunset;
  Till I heard as it were a noise of waters
  Moving tremulous under feet of angels
  Multitudinous, out of all the heavens;
  Knew the fluttering wind, the fluttered foliage,
  Shaken fitfully, full of sound and shadow;
  And saw, trodden upon by noiseless angels,
  Long mysterious reaches fed with moonlight,
  Sweet sad straits in a soft subsiding channel,
  Blown about by the lips of winds I knew not,
  Winds not born in the north nor any quarter,
  Winds not warm with the south nor any sunshine;
  Heard between them a voice of exultation,
  "Lo, the summer is dead, the sun is faded,
  Even like as a leaf the year is withered,
  All the fruits of the day from all her branches
  Gathered, neither is any left to gather.
  All the flowers are dead, the tender blossoms,
  All are taken away; the season wasted,
  Like an ember among the fallen ashes.
  Now with light of the winter days, with moonlight,
  Light of snow, and the bitter light of hoarfrost,
  We bring flowers that fade not after autumn,
  Pale white chaplets and crowns of latter seasons,
  Fair false leaves (but the summer leaves were falser),
  Woven under the eyes of stars and planets
  When low light was upon the windy reaches
  Where the flower of foam was blown, a lily
  Dropt among the sonorous fruitless furrows
  And green fields of the sea that make no pasture:
  Since the winter begins, the weeping winter,
  All whose flowers are tears, and round his temples
  Iron blossom of frost is bound for ever."





  All the night sleep came not upon my eyelids,
  Shed not dew, nor shook nor unclosed a feather,
  Yet with lips shut close and with eyes of iron
    Stood and beheld me.

  Then to me so lying awake a vision
  Came without sleep over the seas and touched me,
  Softly touched mine eyelids and lips; and I too,
    Full of the vision,

  Saw the white implacable Aphrodite,
  Saw the hair unbound and the feet unsandalled
  Shine as fire of sunset on western waters;
    Saw the reluctant

  Feet, the straining plumes of the doves that drew her,
  Looking always, looking with necks reverted,
  Back to Lesbos, back to the hills whereunder
    Shone Mitylene;

  Heard the flying feet of the Loves behind her
  Make a sudden thunder upon the waters,
  As the thunder flung from the strong unclosing
    Wings of a great wind.

  So the goddess fled from her place, with awful
  Sound of feet and thunder of wings around her;
  While behind a clamour of singing women
    Severed the twilight.

  Ah the singing, ah the delight, the passion!
  All the Loves wept, listening; sick with anguish,
  Stood the crowned nine Muses about Apollo;
    Fear was upon them,

  While the tenth sang wonderful things they knew not.
  Ah the tenth, the Lesbian! the nine were silent,
  None endured the sound of her song for weeping;
    Laurel by laurel,

  Faded all their crowns; but about her forehead,
  Round her woven tresses and ashen temples
  White as dead snow, paler than grass in summer,
    Ravaged with kisses,

  Shone a light of fire as a crown for ever.
  Yea, almost the implacable Aphrodite
  Paused, and almost wept; such a song was that song.
    Yea, by her name too

  Called her, saying, "Turn to me, O my Sappho;"
  Yet she turned her face from the Loves, she saw not
  Tears for laughter darken immortal eyelids,
    Heard not about her

  Fearful fitful wings of the doves departing,
  Saw not how the bosom of Aphrodite
  Shook with weeping, saw not her shaken raiment,
    Saw not her hands wrung;

  Saw the Lesbians kissing across their smitten
  Lutes with lips more sweet than the sound of lute-strings,
  Mouth to mouth and hand upon hand, her chosen,
    Fairer than all men;

  Only saw the beautiful lips and fingers,
  Full of songs and kisses and little whispers,
  Full of music; only beheld among them
    Soar, as a bird soars

  Newly fledged, her visible song, a marvel,
  Made of perfect sound and exceeding passion,
  Sweetly shapen, terrible, full of thunders,
    Clothed with the wind's wings.

  Then rejoiced she, laughing with love, and scattered
  Roses, awful roses of holy blossom;
  Then the Loves thronged sadly with hidden faces
    Round Aphrodite,

  Then the Muses, stricken at heart, were silent;
  Yea, the gods waxed pale; such a song was that song.
  All reluctant, all with a fresh repulsion,
    Fled from before her.

  All withdrew long since, and the land was barren,
  Full of fruitless women and music only.
  Now perchance, when winds are assuaged at sunset,
    Lulled at the dewfall,

  By the grey sea-side, unassuaged, unheard of,
  Unbeloved, unseen in the ebb of twilight,
  Ghosts of outcast women return lamenting,
    Purged not in Lethe,

  Clothed about with flame and with tears, and singing
  Songs that move the heart of the shaken heaven,
  Songs that break the heart of the earth with pity,
    Hearing, to hear them.







  Men of Eleusis, ye that with long staves
  Sit in the market-houses, and speak words
  Made sweet with wisdom as the rare wine is
  Thickened with honey; and ye sons of these
  Who in the glad thick streets go up and down
  For pastime or grave traffic or mere chance;
  And all fair women having rings of gold
  On hands or hair; and chiefest over these
  I name you, daughters of this man the king,
  Who dipping deep smooth pitchers of pure brass
  Under the bubbled wells, till each round lip
  Stooped with loose gurgle of waters incoming,
  Found me an old sick woman, lamed and lean,
  Beside a growth of builded olive-boughs
  Whence multiplied thick song of thick-plumed throats--
  Also wet tears filled up my hollow hands
  By reason of my crying into them--
  And pitied me; for as cold water ran
  And washed the pitchers full from lip to lip,
  So washed both eyes full the strong salt of tears.
  And ye put water to my mouth, made sweet
  With brown hill-berries; so in time I spoke
  And gathered my loose knees from under me.
  Moreover in the broad fair halls this month
  Have I found space and bountiful abode
  To please me. I Demeter speak of this,
  Who am the mother and the mate of things:
  For as ill men by drugs or singing words
  Shut the doors inward of the narrowed womb
  Like a lock bolted with round iron through,
  Thus I shut up the body and sweet mouth
  Of all soft pasture and the tender land,
  So that no seed can enter in by it
  Though one sow thickly, nor some grain get out
  Past the hard clods men cleave and bite with steel
  To widen the sealed lips of them for use.
  None of you is there in the peopled street
  But knows how all the dry-drawn furrows ache
  With no green spot made count of in the black:
  How the wind finds no comfortable grass
  Nor is assuaged with bud nor breath of herbs;
  And in hot autumn when ye house the stacks,
  All fields are helpless in the sun, all trees
  Stand as a man stripped out of all but skin.
  Nevertheless ye sick have help to get
  By means and stablished ordinance of God;
  For God is wiser than a good man is.
  But never shall new grass be sweet in earth
  Till I get righted of my wound and wrong
  By changing counsel of ill-minded Zeus.
  For of all other gods is none save me
  Clothed with like power to build and break the year.
  I make the lesser green begin, when spring
  Touches not earth but with one fearful foot;
  And as a careful gilder with grave art
  Soberly colours and completes the face,
  Mouth, chin and all, of some sweet work in stone,
  I carve the shapes of grass and tender corn
  And colour the ripe edges and long spikes
  With the red increase and the grace of gold,
  No tradesman in soft wools is cunninger
  To kill the secret of the fat white fleece
  With stains of blue and purple wrought in it.
  Three moons were made and three moons burnt away
  While I held journey hither out of Crete
  Comfortless, tended by grave Hecate
  Whom my wound stung with double iron point;
  For all my face was like a cloth wrung out
  With close and weeping wrinkles, and both lids
  Sodden with salt continuance of tears.
  For Hades and the sidelong will of Zeus
  And that lame wisdom that has writhen feet,
  Cunning, begotten in the bed of Shame,
  These three took evil will at me, and made
  Such counsel that when time got wing to fly
  This Hades out of summer and low fields
  Forced the bright body of Persephone:
  Out of pure grass, where she lying down, red flowers
  Made their sharp little shadows on her sides,
  Pale heat, pale colour on pale maiden flesh--
  And chill water slid over her reddening feet,
  Killing the throbs in their soft blood; and birds,
  Perched next her elbow and pecking at her hair,
  Stretched their necks more to see her than even to sing.
  A sharp thing is it I have need to say;
  For Hades holding both white wrists of hers
  Unloosed the girdle and with knot by knot
  Bound her between his wheels upon the seat,
  Bound her pure body, holiest yet and dear
  To me and God as always, clothed about
  With blossoms loosened as her knees went down.
  Let fall as she let go of this and this
  By tens and twenties, tumbled to her feet,
  White waifs or purple of the pasturage.
  Therefore with only going up and down
  My feet were wasted, and the gracious air,
  To me discomfortable and dun, became
  As weak smoke blowing in the under world.
  And finding in the process of ill days
  What part had Zeus herein, and how as mate
  He coped with Hades, yokefellow in sin,
  I set my lips against the meat of gods
  And drank not neither ate or slept in heaven.
  Nor in the golden greeting of their mouths
  Did ear take note of me, nor eye at all
  Track my feet going in the ways of them.
  Like a great fire on some strait slip of land
  Between two washing inlets of wet sea
  That burns the grass up to each lip of beach
  And strengthens, waxing in the growth of wind,
  So burnt my soul in me at heaven and earth,
  Each way a ruin and a hungry plague,
  Visible evil; nor could any night
  Put cool between mine eyelids, nor the sun
  With competence of gold fill out my want.
  Yea so my flame burnt up the grass and stones,
  Shone to the salt-white edges of thin sea,
  Distempered all the gracious work, and made
  Sick change, unseasonable increase of days
  And scant avail of seasons; for by this
  The fair gods faint in hollow heaven: there comes
  No taste of burnings of the twofold fat
  To leave their palates smooth, nor in their lips
  Soft rings of smoke and weak scent wandering;
  All cattle waste and rot, and their ill smell
  Grows alway from the lank unsavoury flesh
  That no man slays for offering; the sea
  And waters moved beneath the heath and corn
  Preserve the people of fin-twinkling fish,
  And river-flies feed thick upon the smooth;
  But all earth over is no man or bird
  (Except the sweet race of the kingfisher)
  That lacks not and is wearied with much loss.
  Meantime the purple inward of the house
  Was softened with all grace of scent and sound
  In ear and nostril perfecting my praise;
  Faint grape-flowers and cloven honey-cake
  And the just grain with dues of the shed salt
  Made me content: yet my hand loosened not
  Its gripe upon your harvest all year long.
  While I, thus woman-muffled in wan flesh
  And waste externals of a perished face,
  Preserved the levels of my wrath and love
  Patiently ruled; and with soft offices
  Cooled the sharp noons and busied the warm nights
  In care of this my choice, this child my choice,
  Triptolemus, the king's selected son:
  That this fair yearlong body, which hath grown
  Strong with strange milk upon the mortal lip
  And nerved with half a god, might so increase
  Outside the bulk and the bare scope of man:
  And waxen over large to hold within
  Base breath of yours and this impoverished air,
  I might exalt him past the flame of stars,
  The limit and walled reach of the great world.
  Therefore my breast made common to his mouth
  Immortal savours, and the taste whereat
  Twice their hard life strains out the coloured veins
  And twice its brain confirms the narrow shell.
  Also at night, unwinding cloth from cloth
  As who unhusks an almond to the white
  And pastures curiously the purer taste,
  I bared the gracious limbs and the soft feet,
  Unswaddled the weak hands, and in mid ash
  Laid the sweet flesh of either feeble side,
  More tender for impressure of some touch
  Than wax to any pen; and lit around
  Fire, and made crawl the white worm-shapen flame,
  And leap in little angers spark by spark
  At head at once and feet; and the faint hair
  Hissed with rare sprinkles in the closer curl,
  And like scaled oarage of a keen thin fish
  In sea-water, so in pure fire his feet
  Struck out, and the flame bit not in his flesh,
  But like a kiss it curled his lip, and heat
  Fluttered his eyelids; so each night I blew
  The hot ash red to purge him to full god.
  Ill is it when fear hungers in the soul
  For painful food, and chokes thereon, being fed;
  And ill slant eyes interpret the straight sun,
  But in their scope its white is wried to black:
  By the queen Metaneira mean I this;
  For with sick wrath upon her lips, and heart
  Narrowing with fear the spleenful passages,
  She thought to thread this web's fine ravel out,
  Nor leave her shuttle split in combing it;
  Therefore she stole on us, and with hard sight
  Peered, and stooped close; then with pale open mouth
  As the fire smote her in the eyes between
  Cried, and the child's laugh, sharply shortening
  As fire doth under rain, fell off; the flame
  Writhed once all through and died, and in thick dark
  Tears fell from mine on the child's weeping eyes,
  Eyes dispossessed of strong inheritance
  And mortal fallen anew. Who not the less
  From bud of beard to pale-grey flower of hair
  Shall wax vinewise to a lordly vine, whose grapes
  Bleed the red heavy blood of swoln soft wine,
  Subtle with sharp leaves' intricacy, until
  Full of white years and blossom of hoary days
  I take him perfected; for whose one sake
  I am thus gracious to the least who stands
  Filleted with white wool and girt upon
  As he whose prayer endures upon the lip
  And falls not waste: wherefore let sacrifice
  Burn and run red in all the wider ways;
  Seeing I have sworn by the pale temples' band
  And poppied hair of gold Persephone
  Sad-tressed and pleached low down about her brows,
  And by the sorrow in her lips, and death
  Her dumb and mournful-mouthd minister,
  My word for you is eased of its harsh weight
  And doubled with soft promise; and your king
  Triptolemus, this Celeus dead and swathed
  Purple and pale for golden burial,
  Shall be your helper in my services,
  Dividing earth and reaping fruits thereof
  In fields where wait, well-girt, well-wreathen, all
  The heavy-handed seasons all year through;
  Saving the choice of warm spear-headed grain,
  And stooping sharp to the slant-sided share
  All beasts that furrow the remeasured land
  With their bowed necks of burden equable.






  There were four apples on the bough,
  Half gold half red, that one might know
  The blood was ripe inside the core;
  The colour of the leaves was more
  Like stems of yellow corn that grow
  Through all the gold June meadow's floor.

  The warm smell of the fruit was good
  To feed on, and the split green wood,
  With all its bearded lips and stains
  Of mosses in the cloven veins,
  Most pleasant, if one lay or stood
  In sunshine or in happy rains.

  There were four apples on the tree,
  Red stained through gold, that all might see
  The sun went warm from core to rind;
  The green leaves made the summer blind
  In that soft place they kept for me
  With golden apples shut behind.

  The leaves caught gold across the sun,
  And where the bluest air begun
  Thirsted for song to help the heat;
  As I to feel my lady's feet
  Draw close before the day were done;
  Both lips grew dry with dreams of it.

  In the mute August afternoon
  They trembled to some undertune
  Of music in the silver air;
  Great pleasure was it to be there
  Till green turned duskier and the moon
  Coloured the corn-sheaves like gold hair.

  That August time it was delight
  To watch the red moons wane to white
  'Twixt grey seamed stems of apple-trees;
  A sense of heavy harmonies
  Grew on the growth of patient night,
  More sweet than shapen music is.

  But some three hours before the moon
  The air, still eager from the noon,
  Flagged after heat, not wholly dead;
  Against the stem I leant my head;
  The colour soothed me like a tune,
  Green leaves all round the gold and red.

  I lay there till the warm smell grew
  More sharp, when flecks of yellow dew
  Between the round ripe leaves had blurred
  The rind with stain and wet; I heard
  A wind that blew and breathed and blew,
  Too weak to alter its one word.

  The wet leaves next the gentle fruit
  Felt smoother, and the brown tree-root
  Felt the mould warmer: I too felt
  (As water feels the slow gold melt
  Right through it when the day burns mute)
  The peace of time wherein love dwelt.

  There were four apples on the tree,
  Gold stained on red that all might see
  The sweet blood filled them to the core:
  The colour of her hair is more
  Like stems of fair faint gold, that be
  Mown from the harvest's middle floor.






  Three damsels in the queen's chamber,
      The queen's mouth was most fair;
  She spake a word of God's mother
      As the combs went in her hair.
          Mary that is of might,
          Bring us to thy Son's sight.

  They held the gold combs out from her,
      A span's length off her head;
  She sang this song of God's mother
      And of her bearing-bed.
          Mary most full of grace,
          Bring us to thy Son's face.

  When she sat at Joseph's hand,
      She looked against her side;
  And either way from the short silk band
      Her girdle was all wried.
          Mary that all good may,
          Bring us to thy Son's way.

  Mary had three women for her bed,
      The twain were maidens clean;
  The first of them had white and red,
      The third had riven green.
          Mary that is so sweet,
          Bring us to thy Son's feet.

  She had three women for her hair,
      Two were gloved soft and shod;
  The third had feet and fingers bare,
      She was the likest God.
          Mary that wieldeth land,
          Bring us to thy Son's hand.

  She had three women for her ease,
      The twain were good women:
  The first two were the two Maries,
      The third was Magdalen.
          Mary that perfect is,
          Bring us to thy Son's kiss.

  Joseph had three workmen in his stall,
      To serve him well upon;
  The first of them were Peter and Paul,
      The third of them was John.
          Mary, God's handmaiden,
          Bring us to thy Son's ken.

  "If your child be none other man's,
      But if it be very mine,
  The bedstead shall be gold two spans,
      The bedfoot silver fine."
          Mary that made God mirth,
          Bring us to thy Son's birth.

  "If the child be some other man's,
      And if it be none of mine,
  The manger shall be straw two spans,
      Betwixen kine and kine."
          Mary that made sin cease,
          Bring us to thy Son's peace.

  Christ was born upon this wise,
      It fell on such a night,
  Neither with sounds of psalteries,
      Nor with fire for light.
          Mary that is God's spouse,
          Bring us to thy Son's house.

  The star came out upon the east
      With a great sound and sweet:
  Kings gave gold to make him feast
      And myrrh for him to eat.
          Mary, of thy sweet mood,
          Bring us to thy Son's good.

  He had two handmaids at his head,
      One handmaid at his feet;
  The twain of them were fair and red,
      The third one was right sweet.
          Mary that is most wise,
          Bring us to thy Son's eyes. Amen.





  It hath been seen and yet it shall be seen
  That out of tender mouths God's praise hath been
  Made perfect, and with wood and simple string
  He hath played music sweet as shawm-playing
  To please himself with softness of all sound;
  And no small thing but hath been sometime found
  Full sweet of use, and no such humbleness
  But God hath bruised withal the sentences
  And evidence of wise men witnessing;
  No leaf that is so soft a hidden thing
  It never shall get sight of the great sun;
  The strength of ten has been the strength of one,
  And lowliness has waxed imperious.
    There was in Rome a man Theophilus
  Of right great blood and gracious ways, that had
  All noble fashions to make people glad
  And a soft life of pleasurable days;
  He was a goodly man for one to praise,
  Flawless and whole upward from foot to head;
  His arms were a red hawk that alway fed
  On a small bird with feathers gnawed upon,
  Beaten and plucked about the bosom-bone
  Whereby a small round fleck like fire there was:
  They called it in their tongue lampadias;
  This was the banner of the lordly man.
  In many straits of sea and reaches wan
  Full of quick wind, and many a shaken firth,
  It had seen fighting days of either earth,
  Westward or east of waters Gaditane
  (This was the place of sea-rocks under Spain
  Called after the great praise of Hercules)
  And north beyond the washing Pontic seas,
  Far windy Russian places fabulous,
  And salt fierce tides of storm-swoln Bosphorus.
    Now as this lord came straying in Rome town
  He saw a little lattice open down
  And after it a press of maidens' heads
  That sat upon their cold small quiet beds
  Talking, and played upon short-stringd lutes;
  And other some ground perfume out of roots
  Gathered by marvellous moons in Asia;
  Saffron and aloes and wild cassia,
  Coloured all through and smelling of the sun;
  And over all these was a certain one
  Clothed softly, with sweet herbs about her hair
  And bosom flowerful; her face more fair
  Than sudden-singing April in soft lands:
  Eyed like a gracious bird, and in both hands
  She held a psalter painted green and red.
    This Theophile laughed at the heart, and said,
  Now God so help me hither and St. Paul,
  As by the new time of their festival
  I have good will to take this maid to wife.
  And herewith fell to fancies of her life
  And soft half-thoughts that ended suddenly.
  This is man's guise to please himself, when he
  Shall not see one thing of his pleasant things,
  Nor with outwatch of many travailings
  Come to be eased of the least pain he hath
  For all his love and all his foolish wrath
  And all the heavy manner of his mind.
  Thus is he like a fisher fallen blind
  That casts his nets across the boat awry
  To strike the sea, but lo, he striketh dry
  And plucks them back all broken for his pain
  And bites his beard and casts across again
  And reaching wrong slips over in the sea.
  So hath this man a strangled neck for fee,
  For all his cost he chuckles in his throat.
    This Theophile that little hereof wote
  Laid wait to hear of her what she might be:
  Men told him she had name of Dorothy,
  And was a lady of a worthy house.
  Thereat this knight grew inly glorious
  That he should have a love so fair of place.
  She was a maiden of most quiet face,
  Tender of speech, and had no hardihood
  But was nigh feeble of her fearful blood;
  Her mercy in her was so marvellous
  From her least years, that seeing her school-fellows
  That read beside her stricken with a rod,
  She would cry sore and say some word to God
  That he would ease her fellow of his pain.
  There is no touch of sun or fallen rain
  That ever fell on a more gracious thing.
    In middle Rome there was in stone-working
  The church of Venus painted royally.
  The chapels of it were some two or three,
  In each of them her tabernacle was
  And a wide window of six feet in glass
  Coloured with all her works in red and gold.
  The altars had bright cloths and cups to hold
  The wine of Venus for the services,
  Made out of honey and crushed wood-berries
  That shed sweet yellow through the thick wet red,
  That on high days was borne upon the head
  Of Venus' priest for any man to drink;
  So that in drinking he should fall to think
  On some fair face, and in the thought thereof
  Worship, and such should triumph in his love.
  For this soft wine that did such grace and good
  Was new trans-shaped and mixed with Love's own blood,
  That in the fighting Trojan time was bled;
  For which came such a woe to Diomed
  That he was stifled after in hard sea.
  And some said that this wine-shedding should be
  Made of the falling of Adonis' blood,
  That curled upon the thorns and broken wood
  And round the gold silk shoes on Venus' feet;
  The taste thereof was as hot honey sweet
  And in the mouth ran soft and riotous.
  This was the holiness of Venus' house.
    It was their worship, that in August days
  Twelve maidens should go through those Roman ways
  Naked, and having gold across their brows
  And their hair twisted in short golden rows,
  To minister to Venus in this wise:
  And twelve men chosen in their companies
  To match these maidens by the altar-stair,
  All in one habit, crowned upon the hair.
  Among these men was chosen Theophile.
    This knight went out and prayed a little while,
  Holding queen Venus by her hands and knees;
  I will give thee twelve royal images
  Cut in glad gold, with marvels of wrought stone
  For thy sweet priests to lean and pray upon,
  Jasper and hyacinth and chrysopras,
  And the strange Asian thalamite that was
  Hidden twelve ages under heavy sea
  Among the little sleepy pearls, to be
  A shrine lit over with soft candle-flame
  Burning all night red as hot brows of shame,
  So thou wilt be my lady without sin.
  Goddess that art all gold outside and in,
  Help me to serve thee in thy holy way.
  Thou knowest, Love, that in my bearing day
  There shone a laughter in the singing stars
  Round the gold-ceild bride-bed wherein Mars
  Touched thee and had thee in your kissing wise.
  Now therefore, sweet, kiss thou my maiden's eyes
  That they may open graciously towards me;
  And this new fashion of thy shrine shall be
  As soft with gold as thine own happy head.
    The goddess, that was painted with face red
  Between two long green tumbled sides of sea,
  Stooped her neck sideways, and spake pleasantly:
  Thou shalt have grace as thou art thrall of mine.
  And with this came a savour of shed wine
  And plucked-out petals from a rose's head:
  And softly with slow laughs of lip she said,
  Thou shalt have favour all thy days of me.
    Then came Theophilus to Dorothy,
  Saying: O sweet, if one should strive or speak
  Against God's ways, he gets a beaten cheek
  For all his wage and shame above all men.
  Therefore I have no will to turn again
  When God saith "go," lest a worse thing fall out.
  Then she, misdoubting lest he went about
  To catch her wits, made answer somewhat thus:
  I have no will, my lord Theophilus,
  To speak against this worthy word of yours;
  Knowing how God's will in all speech endures,
  That save by grace there may no thing be said,
  Then Theophile waxed light from foot to head,
  And softly fell upon this answering.
  It is well seen you are a chosen thing
  To do God service in his gracious way.
  I will that you make haste and holiday
  To go next year upon the Venus stair,
  Covered none else, but crowned upon your hair,
  And do the service that a maiden doth.
  She said: but I that am Christ's maid were loth
  To do this thing that hath such bitter name.
  Thereat his brows were beaten with sore shame
  And he came off and said no other word.
  Then his eyes chanced upon his banner-bird,
  And he fell fingering at the staff of it
  And laughed for wrath and stared between his feet,
  And out of a chafed heart he spake as thus:
  Lo how she japes at me Theophilus,
  Feigning herself a fool and hard to love;
  Yet in good time for all she boasteth of
  She shall be like a little beaten bird.
  And while his mouth was open in that word
  He came upon the house Janiculum,
  Where some went busily, and other some
  Talked in the gate called the gate glorious.
  The emperor, which was one Gabalus,
  Sat over all and drank chill wine alone.
  To whom is come Theophilus anon,
  And said as thus: _Beau sire, Dieu vous aide_.
  And afterward sat under him, and said
  All this thing through as ye have wholly heard.
    This Gabalus laughed thickly in his beard.
  Yea, this is righteousness and maiden rule.
  Truly, he said, a maid is but a fool.
  And japed at them as one full villainous,
  In a lewd wise, this heathen Gabalus,
  And sent his men to bind her as he bade.
  Thus have they taken Dorothy the maid,
  And haled her forth as men hale pick-purses:
  A little need God knows they had of this,
  To hale her by her maiden gentle hair.
  Thus went she lowly, making a soft prayer,
  As one who stays the sweet wine in his mouth,
  Murmuring with eased lips, and is most loth
  To have done wholly with the sweet of it.
    Christ king, fair Christ, that knowest all men's wit
  And all the feeble fashion of my ways,
  O perfect God, that from all yesterdays
  Abidest whole with morrows perfected,
  I pray thee by thy mother's holy head
  Thou help me to do right, that I not slip:
  I have no speech nor strength upon my lip,
  Except thou help me who art wise and sweet.
  Do this too for those nails that clove thy feet,
  Let me die maiden after many pains.
  Though I be least among thy handmaidens,
  Doubtless I shall take death more sweetly thus.
    Now have they brought her to King Gabalus,
  Who laughed in all his throat some breathing-whiles:
  By God, he said, if one should leap two miles,
  He were not pained about the sides so much.
  This were a soft thing for a man to touch.
  Shall one so chafe that hath such little bones?
  And shook his throat with thick and chuckled moans
  For laughter that she had such holiness.
  What aileth thee, wilt thou do services?
  It were good fare to fare as Venus doth.
    Then said this lady with her maiden mouth,
  Shamefaced, and something paler in the cheek:
  Now, sir, albeit my wit and will to speak
  Give me no grace in sight of worthy men,
  For all my shame yet know I this again,
  I may not speak, nor after downlying
  Rise up to take delight in lute-playing,
  Nor sing nor sleep, nor sit and fold my hands,
  But my soul in some measure understands
  God's grace laid like a garment over me.
  For this fair God that out of strong sharp sea
  Lifted the shapely and green-coloured land,
  And hath the weight of heaven in his hand
  As one might hold a bird, and under him
  The heavy golden planets beam by beam
  Building the feasting-chambers of his house,
  And the large world he holdeth with his brows,
  And with the light of them astonisheth
  All place and time and face of life and death
  And motion of the north wind and the south,
  And is the sound within his angel's mouth
  Of singing words and words of thanksgiving,
  And is the colour of the latter spring
  And heat upon the summer and the sun,
  And is beginning of all things begun
  And gathers in him all things to their end,
  And with the fingers of his hand doth bend
  The stretched-out sides of heaven like a sail,
  And with his breath he maketh the red pale
  And fills with blood faint faces of men dead,
  And with the sound between his lips are fed
  Iron and fire and the white body of snow,
  And blossom of all trees in places low,
  And small bright herbs about the little hills,
  And fruit pricked softly with birds' tender bills,
  And flight of foam about green fields of sea,
  And fourfold strength of the great winds that be
  Moved always outward from beneath his feet,
  And growth of grass and growth of sheavd wheat
  And all green flower of goodly-growing lands;
  And all these things he gathers with his hands
  And covers all their beauty with his wings;
  The same, even God that governs all these things,
  Hath set my feet to be upon his ways.
  Now therefore for no painfulness of days
  I shall put off this service bound on me.
  Also, fair sir, ye know this certainly,
  How God was in his flesh full chaste and meek
  And gave his face to shame, and either cheek
  Gave up to smiting of men tyrannous.
    And here with a great voice this Gabalus
  Cried out and said: By God's blood and his bones,
  This were good game betwixen night and nones
  For one to sit and hearken to such saws:
  I were as lief fall in some big beast's jaws
  As hear these women's jaw-teeth clattering;
  By God a woman is the harder thing,
  One may not put a hook into her mouth.
  Now by St. Luke I am so sore adrouth
  For all these saws I must needs drink again.
  But I pray God deliver all us men
  From all such noise of women and their heat.
  That is a noble scripture, well I weet,
  That likens women to an empty can;
  When God said that he was a full wise man,
  I trow no man may blame him as for that.
    And herewithal he drank a draught, and spat,
  And said: Now shall I make an end hereof.
  Come near all men and hearken for God's love,
  And ye shall hear a jest or twain, God wot.
  And spake as thus with mouth full thick and hot;
  But thou do this thou shalt be shortly slain.
  Lo, sir, she said, this death and all this pain
  I take in penance of my bitter sins.
  Yea now, quoth Gabalus, this game begins.
  Lo, without sin one shall not live a span.
  Lo, this is she that would not look on man
  Between her fingers folded in thwart wise.
  See how her shame hath smitten in her eyes
  That was so clean she had not heard of shame.
  Certes, he said, by Gabalus my name,
  This two years back I was not so well pleased.
  This were good mirth for sick men to be eased
  And rise up whole and laugh at hearing of.
  I pray thee show us something of thy love,
  Since thou wast maid thy gown is waxen wide.
  Yea, maid I am, she said, and somewhat sighed,
  As one who thought upon the low fair house
  Where she sat working, with soft bended brows
  Watching her threads, among the school-maidens.
  And she thought well now God had brought her thence
  She should not come to sew her gold again.
    Then cried King Gabalus upon his men
  To have her forth and draw her with steel gins.
  And as a man hag-ridden beats and grins
  And bends his body sidelong in his bed,
  So wagged he with his body and knave's head,
  Gaping at her, and blowing with his breath.
  And in good time he gat an evil death
  Out of his lewdness with his cursd wives:
  His bones were hewn asunder as with knives
  For his misliving, certes it is said.
  But all the evil wrought upon this maid,
  It were full hard for one to handle it.
  For her soft blood was shed upon her feet,
  And all her body's colour bruised and faint.
  But she, as one abiding God's great saint,
  Spake not nor wept for all this travail hard.
  Wherefore the king commanded afterward
  To slay her presently in all men's sight.
  And it was now an hour upon the night
  And winter-time, and a few stars began.
  The weather was yet feeble and all wan
  For beating of a weighty wind and snow.
  And she came walking in soft wise and slow,
  And many men with faces piteous.
  Then came this heavy cursing Gabalus,
  That swore full hard into his drunken beard;
  And faintly after without any word
  Came Theophile some paces off the king.
  And in the middle of this wayfaring
  Full tenderly beholding her he said:
    There is no word of comfort with men dead
  Nor any face and colour of things sweet;
  But always with lean cheeks and lifted feet
  These dead men lie all aching to the blood
  With bitter cold, their brows withouten hood
  Beating for chill, their bodies swathed full thin:
  Alas, what hire shall any have herein
  To give his life and get such bitterness?
  Also the soul going forth bodiless
  Is hurt with naked cold, and no man saith
  If there be house or covering for death
  To hide the soul that is discomforted.
    Then she beholding him a little said:
  Alas, fair lord, ye have no wit of this;
  For on one side death is full poor of bliss
  And as ye say full sharp of bone and lean:
  But on the other side is good and green
  And hath soft flower of tender-coloured hair
  Grown on his head, and a red mouth as fair
  As may be kissed with lips; thereto his face
  Is as God's face, and in a perfect place
  Full of all sun and colour of straight boughs
  And waterheads about a painted house
  That hath a mile of flowers either way
  Outward from it, and blossom-grass of May
  Thickening on many a side for length of heat,
  Hath God set death upon a noble seat
  Covered with green and flowered in the fold,
  In likeness of a great king grown full old
  And gentle with new temperance of blood;
  And on his brows a purfled purple hood,
  They may not carry any golden thing;
  And plays some tune with subtle fingering
  On a small cithern, full of tears and sleep
  And heavy pleasure that is quick to weep
  And sorrow with the honey in her mouth;
  And for this might of music that he doth
  Are all souls drawn toward him with great love
  And weep for sweetness of the noise thereof
  And bow to him with worship of their knees;
  And all the field is thick with companies
  Of fair-clothed men that play on shawms and lutes
  And gather honey of the yellow fruits
  Between the branches waxen soft and wide:
  And all this peace endures in either side
  Of the green land, and God beholdeth all.
  And this is girdled with a round fair wall
  Made of red stone and cool with heavy leaves
  Grown out against it, and green blossom cleaves
  To the green chinks, and lesser wall-weed sweet,
  Kissing the crannies that are split with heat,
  And branches where the summer draws to head.
    And Theophile burnt in the cheek, and said:
  Yea, could one see it, this were marvellous.
  I pray you, at your coming to this house,
  Give me some leaf of all those tree-branches;
  Seeing how so sharp and white our weather is,
  There is no green nor gracious red to see.
    Yea, sir, she said, that shall I certainly.
  And from her long sweet throat without a fleck
  Undid the gold, and through her stretched-out neck
  The cold axe clove, and smote away her head:
  Out of her throat the tender blood full red
  Fell suddenly through all her long soft hair.
  And with good speed for hardness of the air
  Each man departed to his house again.
    Lo, as fair colour in the face of men
  At seed-time of their blood, or in such wise
  As a thing seen increaseth in men's eyes,
  Caught first far off by sickly fits of sight,
  So a word said, if one shall hear aright,
  Abides against the season of its growth.
  This Theophile went slowly, as one doth
  That is not sure for sickness of his feet;
  And counting the white stonework of the street,
  Tears fell out of his eyes for wrath and love,
  Making him weep more for the shame thereof
  Than for true pain: so went he half a mile.
  And women mocked him, saying: Theophile,
  Lo, she is dead; what shall a woman have
  That loveth such an one? so Christ me save,
  I were as lief to love a man new-hung.
  Surely this man has bitten on his tongue,
  This makes him sad and writhled in his face.
    And when they came upon the paven place
  That was called sometime the place amorous
  There came a child before Theophilus
  Bearing a basket, and said suddenly:
  Fair sir, this is my mistress Dorothy
  That sends you gifts; and with this he was gone.
  In all this earth there is not such an one
  For colour and straight stature made so fair.
  The tender growing gold of his pure hair
  Was as wheat growing, and his mouth as flame.
  God called him Holy after his own name;
  With gold cloth like fire burning he was clad.
  But for the fair green basket that he had,
  It was filled up with heavy white and red;
  Great roses stained still where the first rose bled,
  Burning at heart for shame their heart withholds:
  And the sad colour of strong marigolds
  That have the sun to kiss their lips for love;
  The flower that Venus' hair is woven of,
  The colour of fair apples in the sun,
  Late peaches gathered when the heat was done
  And the slain air got breath; and after these
  The fair faint-headed poppies drunk with ease,
  And heaviness of hollow lilies red.
    Then cried they all that saw these things, and said
  It was God's doing, and was marvellous.
  And in brief while this knight Theophilus
  Is waxen full of faith, and witnesseth
  Before the king of God and love and death,
  For which the king bade hang him presently.
  A gallows of a goodly piece of tree
  This Gabalus hath made to hang him on.
  Forth of this world lo Theophile is gone
  With a wried neck, God give us better fare
  Than his that hath a twisted throat to wear;
  But truly for his love God hath him brought
  There where his heavy body grieves him nought
  Nor all the people plucking at his feet;
  But in his face his lady's face is sweet,
  And through his lips her kissing lips are gone:
  God send him peace, and joy of such an one.
    This is the story of St. Dorothy.
  I will you of your mercy pray for me
  Because I wrote these sayings for your grace,
  That I may one day see her in the face.


  I will that if I say a heavy thing
  Your tongues forgive me; seeing ye know that spring
  Has flecks and fits of pain to keep her sweet,
  And walks somewhile with winter-bitten feet.
  Moreover it sounds often well to let
  One string, when ye play music, keep at fret
  The whole song through; one petal that is dead
  Confirms the roses, be they white or red;
  Dead sorrow is not sorrowful to hear
  As the thick noise that breaks mid weeping were;
  The sick sound aching in a lifted throat
  Turns to sharp silver of a perfect note;
  And though the rain falls often, and with rain
  Late autumn falls on the old red leaves like pain,
  I deem that God is not disquieted.
  Also while men are fed with wine and bread,
  They shall be fed with sorrow at his hand.
    There grew a rose-garden in Florence land
  More fair than many; all red summers through
  The leaves smelt sweet and sharp of rain, and blew
  Sideways with tender wind; and therein fell
  Sweet sound wherewith the green waxed audible,
  As a bird's will to sing disturbed his throat
  And set the sharp wings forward like a boat
  Pushed through soft water, moving his brown side
  Smooth-shapen as a maid's, and shook with pride
  His deep warm bosom, till the heavy sun's
  Set face of heat stopped all the songs at once.
  The ways were clean to walk and delicate;
  And when the windy white of March grew late,
  Before the trees took heart to face the sun
  With ravelled raiment of lean winter on,
  The roots were thick and hot with hollow grass.
    Some roods away a lordly house there was,
  Cool with broad courts and latticed passage wet
  From rush-flowers and lilies ripe to set,
  Sown close among the strewings of the floor;
  And either wall of the slow corridor
  Was dim with deep device of gracious things;
  Some angel's steady mouth and weight of wings
  Shut to the side; or Peter with straight stole
  And beard cut black against the aureole
  That spanned his head from nape to crown; thereby
  Mary's gold hair, thick to the girdle-tie
  Wherein was bound a child with tender feet;
  Or the broad cross with blood nigh brown on it.
    Within this house a righteous lord abode,
  Ser Averardo; patient of his mood,
  And just of judgment; and to child he had
  A maid so sweet that her mere sight made glad
  Men sorrowing, and unbound the brows of hate;
  And where she came, the lips that pain made strait
  Waxed warm and wide, and from untender grew
  Tender as those that sleep brings patience to.
  Such long locks had she, that with knee to chin
  She might have wrapped and warmed her feet therein.
  Right seldom fell her face on weeping wise;
  Gold hair she had, and golden-coloured eyes,
  Filled with clear light and fire and large repose
  Like a fair hound's; no man there is but knows
  Her face was white, and thereto she was tall;
  In no wise lacked there any praise at all
  To her most perfect and pure maidenhood;
  No sin I think there was in all her blood.
    She, where a gold grate shut the roses in,
  Dwelt daily through deep summer weeks, through green
  Flushed hours of rain upon the leaves; and there
  Love made him room and space to worship her
  With tender worship of bowed knees, and wrought
  Such pleasure as the pained sense palates not
  For weariness, but at one taste undoes
  The heart of its strong sweet, is ravenous
  Of all the hidden honey; words and sense
  Fail through the tune's imperious prevalence.
    In a poor house this lover kept apart,
  Long communing with patience next his heart
  If love of his might move that face at all,
  Tuned evenwise with colours musical;
  Then after length of days he said thus: "Love,
  For love's own sake and for the love thereof
  Let no harsh words untune your gracious mood;
  For good it were, if anything be good,
  To comfort me in this pain's plague of mine;
  Seeing thus, how neither sleep nor bread nor wine
  Seems pleasant to me, yea no thing that is
  Seems pleasant to me; only I know this,
  Love's ways are sharp for palms of piteous feet
  To travel, but the end of such is sweet:
  Now do with me as seemeth you the best."
  She mused a little, as one holds his guest
  By the hand musing, with her face borne down:
  Then said: "Yea, though such bitter seed be sown,
  Have no more care of all that you have said;
  Since if there is no sleep will bind your head,
  Lo, I am fain to help you certainly;
  Christ knoweth, sir, if I would have you die;
  There is no pleasure when a man is dead."
  Thereat he kissed her hands and yellow head
  And clipped her fair long body many times;
  I have no wit to shape in written rhymes
  A scanted tithe of this great joy they had.
    They were too near love's secret to be glad;
  As whoso deems the core will surely melt
  From the warm fruit his lips caress, hath felt
  Some bitter kernel where the teeth shut hard:
  Or as sweet music sharpens afterward,
  Being half disrelished both for sharp and sweet;
  As sea-water, having killed over-heat
  In a man's body, chills it with faint ache;
  So their sense, burdened only for love's sake,
  Failed for pure love; yet so time served their wit,
  They saved each day some gold reserves of it,
  Being wiser in love's riddle than such be
  Whom fragments feed with his chance charity.
  All things felt sweet were felt sweet overmuch;
  The rose-thorn's prickle dangerous to touch,
  And flecks of fire in the thin leaf-shadows;
  Too keen the breathed honey of the rose,
  Its red too harsh a weight on feasted eyes;
  They were so far gone in love's histories,
  Beyond all shape and colour and mere breath,
  Where pleasure has for kinsfolk sleep and death,
  And strength of soul and body waxen blind
  For weariness, and flesh entailed with mind,
  When the keen edge of sense foretasteth sin.
    Even this green place the summer caught them in
  Seemed half deflowered and sick with beaten leaves
  In their strayed eyes; these gold flower-fumd eves
  Burnt out to make the sun's love-offering,
  The midnoon's prayer, the rose's thanksgiving,
  The trees' weight burdening the strengthless air,
  The shape of her stilled eyes, her coloured hair,
  Her body's balance from the moving feet--
  All this, found fair, lacked yet one grain of sweet
  It had some warm weeks back: so perisheth
  On May's new lip the tender April breath:
  So those same walks the wind sowed lilies in
  All April through, and all their latter kin
  Of languid leaves whereon the Autumn blows--
  The dead red raiment of the last year's rose--
  The last year's laurel, and the last year's love,
  Fade, and grow things that death grows weary of.
    What man will gather in red summer-time
  The fruit of some obscure and hoary rhyme
  Heard last midwinter, taste the heart in it,
  Mould the smooth semitones afresh, refit
  The fair limbs ruined, flush the dead blood through
  With colour, make all broken beauties new
  For love's new lesson--shall not such find pain
  When the marred music labouring in his brain
  Frets him with sweet sharp fragments, and lets slip
  One word that might leave satisfied his lip--
  One touch that might put fire in all the chords?
  This was her pain: to miss from all sweet words
  Some taste of sound, diverse and delicate--
  Some speech the old love found out to compensate
  For seasons of shut lips and drowsiness--
  Some grace, some word the old love found out to bless
  Passionless months and undelighted weeks.
  The flowers had lost their summer-scented cheeks,
  Their lips were no more sweet than daily breath:
  The year was plagued with instances of death.
    So fell it, these were sitting in cool grass
  With leaves about, and many a bird there was
  Where the green shadow thickliest impleached
  Soft fruit and writhen spray and blossom bleached
  Dry in the sun or washed with rains to white:
  Her girdle was pure silk, the bosom bright
  With purple as purple water and gold wrought in.
  One branch had touched with dusk her lips and chin,
  Made violet of the throat, abashed with shade
  The breast's bright plaited work: but nothing frayed
  The sun's large kiss on the luxurious hair.
  Her beauty was new colour to the air
  And music to the silent many birds.
  Love was an-hungred for some perfect words
  To praise her with; but only her low name
  "Andrevuola" came thrice, and thrice put shame
  In her clear cheek, so fruitful with new red
  That for pure love straightway shame's self was dead.
    Then with lids gathered as who late had wept
  She began saying: "I have so little slept
  My lids drowse now against the very sun;
  Yea, the brain aching with a dream begun
  Beats like a fitful blood; kiss but both brows,
  And you shall pluck my thoughts grown dangerous
  Almost away." He said thus, kissing them:
  "O sole sweet thing that God is glad to name,
  My one gold gift, if dreams be sharp and sore
  Shall not the waking time increase much more
  With taste and sound, sweet eyesight or sweet scent?
  Has any heat too hard and insolent
  Burnt bare the tender married leaves, undone
  The maiden grass shut under from the sun?
  Where in this world is room enough for pain?"
    The feverish finger of love had touched again
  Her lips with happier blood; the pain lay meek
  In her fair face, nor altered lip nor cheek
  With pallor or with pulse; but in her mouth
  Love thirsted as a man wayfaring doth,
  Making it humble as weak hunger is.
  She lay close to him, bade do this and this,
  Say that, sing thus: then almost weeping-ripe
  Crouched, then laughed low. As one that fain would wipe
  The old record out of old things done and dead,
  She rose, she heaved her hands up, and waxed red
  For wilful heart and blameless fear of blame;
  Saying "Though my wits be weak, this is no shame
  For a poor maid whom love so punisheth
  With heats of hesitation and stopped breath
  That with my dreams I live yet heavily
  For pure sad heart and faith's humility.
  Now be not wroth and I will show you this.
    "Methought our lips upon their second kiss
  Met in this place, and a fair day we had
  And fair soft leaves that waxed and were not sad
  With shaken rain or bitten through with drouth;
  When I, beholding ever how your mouth
  Waited for mine, the throat being fallen back,
  Saw crawl thereout a live thing flaked with black
  Specks of brute slime and leper-coloured scale,
  A devil's hide with foul flame-writhen grail
  Fashioned where hell's heat festers loathsomest;
  And that brief speech may ease me of the rest,
  Thus were you slain and eaten of the thing.
  My waked eyes felt the new day shuddering
  On their low lids, felt the whole east so beat,
  Pant with close pulse of such a plague-struck heat,
  As if the palpitating dawn drew breath
  For horror, breathing between life and death,
  Till the sun sprang blood-bright and violent."
    So finishing, her soft strength wholly spent,
  She gazed each way, lest some brute-hoovd thing,
  The timeless travail of hell's childbearing,
  Should threat upon the sudden: whereat he,
  For relish of her tasted misery
  And tender little thornprick of her pain,
  Laughed with mere love. What lover among men
  But hath his sense fed sovereignly 'twixt whiles
  With tears and covered eyelids and sick smiles
  And soft disaster of a paind face?
  What pain, established in so sweet a place,
  But the plucked leaf of it smells fragrantly?
  What colour burning man's wide-open eye
  But may be pleasurably seen? what sense
  Keeps in its hot sharp extreme violence
  No savour of sweet things? The bereaved blood
  And emptied flesh in their most broken mood
  Fail not so wholly, famish not when thus
  Past honey keeps the starved lip covetous.
    Therefore this speech from a glad mouth began,
  Breathed in her tender hair and temples wan
  Like one prolonged kiss while the lips had breath.
  "Sleep, that abides in vassalage of death
  And in death's service wears out half his age,
  Hath his dreams full of deadly vassalage,
  Shadow and sound of things ungracious;
  Fair shallow faces, hooded bloodless brows,
  And mouths past kissing; yea, myself have had
  As harsh a dream as holds your eyelids sad.
    "This dream I tell you came three nights ago;
  In full mid sleep I took a whim to know
  How sweet things might be; so I turned and thought;
  But save my dream all sweet availed me not.
  First came a smell of pounded spice and scent
  Such as God ripens in some continent
  Of utmost amber in the Syrian sea;
  And breaths as though some costly rose could be
  Spoiled slowly, wasted by some bitter fire
  To burn the sweet out leaf by leaf, and tire
  The flower's poor heart with heat and waste, to make
  Strong magic for some perfumed woman's sake.
  Then a cool naked sense beneath my feet
  Of bud and blossom; and sound of veins that beat
  As if a lute should play of its own heart
  And fearfully, not smitten of either part;
  And all my blood it filled with sharp and sweet
  As gold swoln grain fills out the huskd wheat;
  So I rose naked from the bed, and stood
  Counting the mobile measure in my blood
  Some pleasant while, and through each limb there came
  Swift little pleasures pungent as a flame,
  Felt in the thrilling flesh and veins as much
  As the outer curls that feel the comb's first touch
  Thrill to the roots and shiver as from fire;
  And blind between my dream and my desire
  I seemed to stand and held my spirit still
  Lest this should cease. A child whose fingers spill
  Honey from cells forgotten of the bee
  Is less afraid to stir the hive and see
  Some wasp's bright back inside, than I to feel
  Some finger-touch disturb the flesh like steel.
  I prayed thus; Let me catch a secret here
  So sweet, it sharpens the sweet taste of fear
  And takes the mouth with edge of wine; I would
  Have here some colour and smooth shape as good
  As those in heaven whom the chief garden hides
  With low grape-blossom veiling their white sides
  And lesser tendrils that so bind and blind
  Their eyes and feet, that if one come behind
  To touch their hair they see not, neither fly;
  This would I see in heaven and not die.
  So praying, I had nigh cried out and knelt,
  So wholly my prayer filled me: till I felt
  In the dumb night's warm weight of glowing gloom
  Somewhat that altered all my sleeping-room,
  And made it like a green low place wherein
  Maids mix to bathe: one sets her small warm chin
  Against a ripple, that the angry pearl
  May flow like flame about her: the next curl
  Dips in some eddy coloured of the sun
  To wash the dust well out; another one
  Holds a straight ankle in her hand and swings
  With lavish body sidelong, so that rings
  Of sweet fierce water, swollen and splendid, fail
  All round her fine and floated body pale,
  Swayed flower-fashion, and her balanced side
  Swerved edgeways lets the weight of water slide,
  As taken in some underflow of sea
  Swerves the banked gold of sea-flowers; but she
  Pulls down some branch to keep her perfect head
  Clear of the river: even from wall to bed,
  I tell you, was my room transfigured so.
  Sweet, green and warm it was, nor could one know
  If there were walls or leaves, or if there was
  No bed's green curtain, but mere gentle grass.
  There were set also hard against the feet
  Gold plates with honey and green grapes to eat,
  With the cool water's noise to hear in rhymes:
  And a wind warmed me full of furze and limes
  And all hot sweets the heavy summer fills
  To the round brim of smooth cup-shapen hills.
  Next the grave walking of a woman's feet
  Made my veins hesitate, and gracious heat
  Made thick the lids and leaden on mine eyes:
  And I thought ever, surely it were wise
  Not yet to see her: this may last (who knows?)
  Five minutes; the poor rose is twice a rose
  Because it turns a face to her, the wind
  Sings that way; hath this woman ever sinned,
  I wonder? as a boy with apple-rind,
  I played with pleasures, made them to my mind,
  Changed each ere tasting. When she came indeed,
  First her hair touched me, then I grew to feed
  On the sense of her hand; her mouth at last
  Touched me between the cheek and lip and past
  Over my face with kisses here and there
  Sown in and out across the eyes and hair.
  Still I said nothing; till she set her face
  More close and harder on the kissing-place,
  And her mouth caught like a snake's mouth, and stung
  So faint and tenderly, the fang scarce clung
  More than a bird's foot: yet a wound it grew,
  A great one, let this red mark witness you
  Under the left breast; and the stroke thereof
  So clove my sense that I woke out of love
  And knew not what this dream was nor had wit;
  But now God knows if I have skill of it."
    Hereat she laid one palm against her lips
  To stop their trembling; as when water slips
  Out of a beak-mouthed vessel with faint noise
  And chuckles in the narrowed throat and cloys
  The carven rims with murmuring, so came
  Words in her lips with no word right of them,
  A beaten speech thick and disconsolate,
  Till his smile ceasing waxed compassionate
  Of her sore fear that grew from anything--
  The sound of the strong summer thickening
  In heated leaves of the smooth apple-trees:
  The day's breath felt about the ash-branches,
  And noises of the noon whose weight still grew
  On the hot heavy-headed flowers, and drew
  Their red mouths open till the rose-heart ached;
  For eastward all the crowding rose was slaked
  And soothed with shade: but westward all its growth
  Seemed to breathe hard with heat as a man doth
  Who feels his temples newly feverous.
  And even with such motion in her brows
  As that man hath in whom sick days begin,
  She turned her throat and spake, her voice being thin
  As a sick man's, sudden and tremulous;
  "Sweet, if this end be come indeed on us,
  Let us love more;" and held his mouth with hers.
  As the first sound of flooded hill-waters
  Is heard by people of the meadow-grass,
  Or ever a wandering waif of ruin pass
  With whirling stones and foam of the brown stream
  Flaked with fierce yellow: so beholding him
  She felt before tears came her eyelids wet,
  Saw the face deadly thin where life was yet,
  Heard his throat's harsh last moan before it clomb:
  And he, with close mouth passionate and dumb,
  Burned at her lips: so lay they without speech,
  Each grasping other, and the eyes of each
  Fed in the other's face: till suddenly
  He cried out with a little broken cry
  This word, "O help me, sweet, I am but dead."
  And even so saying, the colour of fair red
  Was gone out of his face, and his blood's beat
  Fell, and stark death made sharp his upward feet
  And pointed hands; and without moan he died.
  Pain smote her sudden in the brows and side,
  Strained her lips open and made burn her eyes:
  For the pure sharpness of her miseries
  She had no heart's pain, but mere body's wrack;
  But at the last her beaten blood drew back
  Slowly upon her face, and her stunned brows
  Suddenly grown aware and piteous
  Gathered themselves, her eyes shone, her hard breath
  Came as though one nigh dead came back from death;
  Her lips throbbed, and life trembled through her hair.
    And in brief while she thought to bury there
  The dead man that her love might lie with him
  In a sweet bed under the rose-roots dim
  And soft earth round the branchd apple-trees,
  Full of hushed heat and heavy with great ease,
  And no man entering divide him thence.
  Wherefore she bade one of her handmaidens
  To be her help to do upon this wise.
  And saying so the tears out of her eyes
  Fell without noise and comforted her heart:
  Yea, her great pain eased of the sorest part
  Began to soften in her sense of it.
  There under all the little branches sweet
  The place was shapen of his burial;
  They shed thereon no thing funereal,
  But coloured leaves of latter rose-blossom,
  Stems of soft grass, some withered red and some
  Fair and fresh-blooded; and spoil splendider
  Of marigold and great spent sunflower.
    And afterward she came back without word
  To her own house; two days went, and the third
  Went, and she showed her father of this thing.
  And for great grief of her soul's travailing
  He gave consent she should endure in peace
  Till her life's end; yea, till her time should cease,
  She should abide in fellowship of pain.
  And having lived a holy year or twain
  She died of pure waste heart and weariness.
  And for love's honour in her love's distress
  This word was written over her tomb's head;
  "Here dead she lieth, for whose sake Love is dead."




  In the beginning God made thee
      A woman well to look upon,
  Thy tender body as a tree
      Whereon cool wind hath always blown
      Till the clean branches be well grown.

  There was none like thee in the land;
      The girls that were thy bondwomen
  Did bind thee with a purple band
      Upon thy forehead, that all men
      Should know thee for God's handmaiden.

  Strange raiment clad thee like a bride,
      With silk to wear on hands and feet
  And plates of gold on either side:
      Wine made thee glad, and thou didst eat
      Honey, and choice of pleasant meat.

  And fishers in the middle sea
      Did get thee sea-fish and sea-weeds
  In colour like the robes on thee;
      And curious work of plaited reeds,
      And wools wherein live purple bleeds.

  And round the edges of thy cup
      Men wrought thee marvels out of gold,
  Strong snakes with lean throats lifted up,
      Large eyes whereon the brows had hold,
      And scaly things their slime kept cold.

  For thee they blew soft wind in flutes
      And ground sweet roots for cunning scent;
  Made slow because of many lutes,
      The wind among thy chambers went
      Wherein no light was violent.

  God called thy name Aholibah,
      His tabernacle being in thee,
  A witness through waste Asia;
      Thou wert a tent sewn cunningly
      With gold and colours of the sea.

  God gave thee gracious ministers
      And all their work who plait and weave:
  The cunning of embroiderers
      That sew the pillow to the sleeve,
      And likeness of all things that live.

  Thy garments upon thee were fair
      With scarlet and with yellow thread;
  Also the weaving of thine hair
      Was as fine gold upon thy head,
      And thy silk shoes were sewn with red.

  All sweet things he bade sift, and ground
      As a man grindeth wheat in mills
  With strong wheels alway going round;
      He gave thee corn, and grass that fills
      The cattle on a thousand hills.

  The wine of many seasons fed
      Thy mouth, and made it fair and clean;
  Sweet oil was poured out on thy head
      And ran down like cool rain between
      The strait close locks it melted in.

  The strong men and the captains knew
      Thy chambers wrought and fashioned
  With gold and covering of blue,
      And the blue raiment of thine head
      Who satest on a stately bed.

  All these had on their garments wrought
      The shape of beasts and creeping things,
  The body that availeth not,
      Flat backs of worms and veind wings,
      And the lewd bulk that sleeps and stings.

  Also the chosen of the years,
      The multitude being at ease,
  With sackbuts and with dulcimers
      And noise of shawms and psalteries
      Made mirth within the ears of these.

  But as a common woman doth,
      Thou didst think evil and devise;
  The sweet smell of thy breast and mouth
      Thou madest as the harlot's wise,
      And there was painting on thine eyes.

  Yea, in the woven guest-chamber
      And by the painted passages
  Where the strange gracious paintings were,
      State upon state of companies,
      There came on thee the lust of these.

  Because of shapes on either wall
      Sea-coloured from some rare blue shell
  At many a Tyrian interval,
      Horsemen on horses, girdled well,
      Delicate and desirable,

  Thou saidest: I am sick of love:
      Stay me with flagons, comfort me
  With apples for my pain thereof
      Till my hands gather in his tree
      That fruit wherein my lips would be.

  Yea, saidest thou, I will go up
      When there is no more shade than one
  May cover with a hollow cup,
      And make my bed against the sun
      Till my blood's violence be done.

  Thy mouth was leant upon the wall
      Against the painted mouth, thy chin
  Touched the hair's painted curve and fall;
      Thy deep throat, fallen lax and thin,
      Worked as the blood's beat worked therein.

  Therefore, O thou Aholibah,
      God is not glad because of thee;
  And thy fine gold shall pass away
      Like those fair coins of ore that be
      Washed over by the middle sea.

  Then will one make thy body bare
      To strip it of all gracious things,
  And pluck the cover from thine hair,
      And break the gift of many kings,
      Thy wrist-rings and thine ankle-rings.

  Likewise the man whose body joins
      To thy smooth body, as was said,
  Who hath a girdle on his loins
      And dyed attire upon his head--
      The same who, seeing, worshipped,

  Because thy face was like the face
      Of a clean maiden that smells sweet,
  Because thy gait was as the pace
      Of one that opens not her feet
      And is not heard within the street--

  Even he, O thou Aholibah,
      Made separate from thy desire,
  Shall cut thy nose and ears away
      And bruise thee for thy body's hire
      And burn the residue with fire.

  Then shall the heathen people say,
      The multitude being at ease;
  Lo, this is that Aholibah
      Whose name was blown among strange seas.
      Grown old with soft adulteries.

  Also her bed was made of green,
      Her windows beautiful for glass
  That she had made her bed between:
      Yea, for pure lust her body was
      Made like white summer-coloured grass.

  Her raiment was a strong man's spoil;
      Upon a table by a bed
  She set mine incense and mine oil
      To be the beauty of her head
      In chambers walled about with red.

  Also between the walls she had
      Fair faces of strong men portrayed;
  All girded round the loins, and clad
      With several cloths of woven braid
      And garments marvellously made.

  Therefore the wrath of God shall be
      Set as a watch upon her way;
  And whoso findeth by the sea
      Blown dust of bones will hardly say
      If this were that Aholibah.






  Lying asleep between the strokes of night
    I saw my love lean over my sad bed,
    Pale as the duskiest lily's leaf or head,
  Smooth-skinned and dark, with bare throat made to bite,
  Too wan for blushing and too warm for white,
    But perfect-coloured without white or red.
    And her lips opened amorously, and said--
  I wist not what, saving one word--Delight.
  And all her face was honey to my mouth,
    And all her body pasture to mine eyes;
      The long lithe arms and hotter hands than fire,
  The quivering flanks, hair smelling of the south,
    The bright light feet, the splendid supple thighs
      And glittering eyelids of my soul's desire.







  Under green apple-boughs
  That never a storm will rouse,
  My lady hath her house
    Between two bowers;
  In either of the twain
  Red roses full of rain;
  She hath for bondwomen
    All kind of flowers.

  She hath no handmaid fair
  To draw her curled gold hair
  Through rings of gold that bear
    Her whole hair's weight;
  She hath no maids to stand
  Gold-clothed on either hand;
  In all the great green land
    None is so great.

  She hath no more to wear
  But one white hood of vair
  Drawn over eyes and hair,
    Wrought with strange gold,
  Made for some great queen's head,
  Some fair great queen since dead;
  And one strait gown of red
    Against the cold.

  Beneath her eyelids deep
  Love lying seems asleep,
  Love, swift to wake, to weep,
    To laugh, to gaze;
  Her breasts are like white birds,
  And all her gracious words
  As water-grass to herds
    In the June-days.

  To her all dews that fall
  And rains are musical;
  Her flowers are fed from all,
    Her joy from these;
  In the deep-feathered firs
  Their gift of joy is hers,
  In the least breath that stirs
    Across the trees.

  She grows with greenest leaves,
  Ripens with reddest sheaves,
  Forgets, remembers, grieves,
    And is not sad;
  The quiet lands and skies
  Leave light upon her eyes;
  None knows her, weak or wise,
    Or tired or glad.

  None knows, none understands,
  What flowers are like her hands;
  Though you should search all lands
    Wherein time grows,
  What snows are like her feet,
  Though his eyes burn with heat
  Through gazing on my sweet,
    Yet no man knows.

  Only this thing is said;
  That white and gold and red,
  God's three chief words, man's bread
    And oil and wine,
  Were given her for dowers,
  And kingdom of all hours,
  And grace of goodly flowers
    And various vine.

  This is my lady's praise:
  God after many days
  Wrought her in unknown ways,
    In sunset lands;
  This was my lady's birth;
  God gave her might and mirth
  And laid his whole sweet earth
    Between her hands.

  Under deep apple-boughs
  My lady hath her house;
  She wears upon her brows
    The flower thereof;
  All saying but what God saith
  To her is as vain breath;
  She is more strong than death,
    Being strong as love.






  We were ten maidens in the green corn,
    Small red leaves in the mill-water:
  Fairer maidens never were born,
    Apples of gold for the king's daughter.

  We were ten maidens by a well-head,
    Small white birds in the mill-water:
  Sweeter maidens never were wed,
    Rings of red for the king's daughter.

  The first to spin, the second to sing,
    Seeds of wheat in the mill-water;
  The third may was a goodly thing,
    White bread and brown for the king's daughter.

  The fourth to sew and the fifth to play,
    Fair green weed in the mill-water;
  The sixth may was a goodly may,
    White wine and red for the king's daughter.

  The seventh to woo, the eighth to wed,
    Fair thin reeds in the mill-water;
  The ninth had gold work on her head,
    Honey in the comb for the king's daughter.

  The ninth had gold work round her hair,
    Fallen flowers in the mill-water;
  The tenth may was goodly and fair,
    Golden gloves for the king's daughter.

  We were ten maidens in a field green,
    Fallen fruit in the mill-water;
  Fairer maidens never have been,
    Golden sleeves for the king's daughter.

  By there comes the king's young son,
    A little wind in the mill-water;
  "Out of ten maidens ye'll grant me one,"
    A crown of red for the king's daughter.

  "Out of ten mays ye'll give me the best,"
    A little rain in the mill-water;
  A bed of yellow straw for all the rest,
    A bed of gold for the king's daughter.

  He's ta'en out the goodliest,
    Rain that rains in the mill-water;
  A comb of yellow shell for all the rest,
    A comb of gold for the king's daughter.

  He's made her bed to the goodliest,
    Wind and hail in the mill-water;
  A grass girdle for all the rest,
    A girdle of arms for the king's daughter.

  He's set his heart to the goodliest,
    Snow that snows in the mill-water;
  Nine little kisses for all the rest,
    An hundredfold for the king's daughter.

  He's ta'en his leave at the goodliest,
    Broken boats in the mill-water;
  Golden gifts for all the rest,
    Sorrow of heart for the king's daughter.

  "Ye'll make a grave for my fair body,"
    Running rain in the mill-water;
  "And ye'll streek my brother at the side of me,"
    The pains of hell for the king's daughter.





  The four boards of the coffin lid
  Heard all the dead man did.

  The first curse was in his mouth,
  Made of grave's mould and deadly drouth.

  The next curse was in his head,
  Made of God's work discomfited.

  The next curse was in his hands,
  Made out of two grave-bands.

  The next curse was in his feet,
  Made out of a grave-sheet.

  "I had fair coins red and white,
  And my name was as great light;

  I had fair clothes green and red,
  And strong gold bound round my head.

  But no meat comes in my mouth,
  Now I fare as the worm doth;

  And no gold binds in my hair,
  Now I fare as the blind fare.

  My live thews were of great strength,
  Now am I waxen a span's length;

  My live sides were full of lust,
  Now are they dried with dust."

  The first board spake and said:
  "Is it best eating flesh or bread?"

  The second answered it:
  "Is wine or honey the more sweet?"

  The third board spake and said:
  "Is red gold worth a girl's gold head?"

  The fourth made answer thus:
  "All these things are as one with us."

  The dead man asked of them:
  "Is the green land stained brown with flame?

  Have they hewn my son for beasts to eat,
  And my wife's body for beasts' meat?

  Have they boiled my maid in a brass pan,
  And built a gallows to hang my man?"

  The boards said to him:
  "This is a lewd thing that ye deem.

  Your wife has gotten a golden bed,
  All the sheets are sewn with red.

  Your son has gotten a coat of silk,
  The sleeves are soft as curded milk.

  Your maid has gotten a kirtle new,
  All the skirt has braids of blue.

  Your man has gotten both ring and glove,
  Wrought well for eyes to love."

  The dead man answered thus:
  "What good gift shall God give us?"

  The boards answered him anon:
  "Flesh to feed hell's worm upon."






  "Stand up, stand up, thou May Janet,
    And go to the wars with me."
  He's drawn her by both hands
    With her face against the sea.

  "He that strews red shall gather white,
    He that sows white reap red,
  Before your face and my daughter's
    Meet in a marriage-bed.

  "Gold coin shall grow in the yellow field,
    Green corn in the green sea-water,
  And red fruit grow of the rose's red,
    Ere your fruit grow in her."

  "But I shall have her by land," he said,
    "Or I shall have her by sea,
  Or I shall have her by strong treason
    And no grace go with me."

  Her father's drawn her by both hands,
    He's rent her gown from her,
  He's ta'en the smock round her body,
    Cast in the sea-water.

  The captain's drawn her by both sides
    Out of the fair green sea;
  "Stand up, stand up, thou May Janet,
    And come to the war with me."

  The first town they came to
    There was a blue bride-chamber;
  He clothed her on with silk
    And belted her with amber.

  The second town they came to
    The bridesmen feasted knee to knee;
  He clothed her on with silver,
    A stately thing to see.

  The third town they came to
    The bridesmaids all had gowns of gold;
  He clothed her on with purple,
    A rich thing to behold.

  The last town they came to
    He clothed her white and red,
  With a green flag either side of her
    And a gold flag overhead.






  This fell when Christmas lights were done,
    (Red rose leaves will never make wine)
  But before the Easter lights begun;
    The ways are sair fra' the Till to the Tyne.

  Two lovers sat where the rowan blows
    And all the grass is heavy and fine,
  By the gathering-place of the sea-swallows
    When the wind brings them over Tyne.

  Blossom of broom will never make bread,
    Red rose leaves will never make wine;
  Between her brows she is grown red,
    That was full white in the fields by Tyne.

  "O what is this thing ye have on,
    Show me now, sweet daughter of mine?"
  "O father, this is my little son
    That I found hid in the sides of Tyne.

  "O what will ye give my son to eat,
    Red rose leaves will never make wine?"
  "Fen-water and adder's meat."
    The ways are sair fra' the Till to the Tyne.

  "Or what will ye get my son to wear?"
    (Red rose leaves will never make wine.)
  "A weed and a web of nettle's hair."
    The ways are sair fra' the Till to the Tyne.

  "Or what will ye take to line his bed?"
    (Red rose leaves will never make wine.)
  "Two black stones at the kirkwall's head."
    The ways are sair fra' the Till to the Tyne.

  "Or what will ye give my son for land?"
    (Red rose leaves will never make wine.)
  "Three girl's paces of red sand."
    The ways are sair fra' the Till to the Tyne.

  "Or what will ye give me for my son?"
    (Red rose leaves will never make wine.)
  "Six times to kiss his young mouth on."
    The ways are sair fra' the Till to the Tyne.

  "But what have ye done with the bearing-bread,
    And what have ye made of the washing-wine?
  Or where have ye made your bearing-bed,
    To bear a son in the sides of Tyne?"

  "The bearing-bread is soft and new,
    There is no soil in the straining wine;
  The bed was made between green and blue,
    It stands full soft by the sides of Tyne.

  "The fair grass was my bearing-bread,
    The well-water my washing-wine;
  The low leaves were my bearing-bed,
    And that was best in the sides of Tyne."

  "O daughter, if ye have done this thing,
    I wot the greater grief is mine;
  This was a bitter child-bearing,
    When ye were got by the sides of Tyne.

  "About the time of sea-swallows
    That fly full thick by six and nine,
  Ye'll have my body out of the house,
    To bury me by the sides of Tyne.

  "Set nine stones by the wall for twain,"
    (Red rose leaves will never make wine)
  "For the bed I take will measure ten."
    The ways are sair fra' the Till to the Tyne.

  "Tread twelve girl's paces out for three,"
    (Red rose leaves will never make wine)
  "For the pit I made has taken me."
    The ways are sair fra' the Till to the Tyne.







  There were four loves that one by one,
  Following the seasons and the sun,
  Passed over without tears, and fell
  Away without farewell.

  The first was made of gold and tears,
  The next of aspen-leaves and fears,
  The third of rose-boughs and rose-roots,
  The last love of strange fruits.

  These were the four loves faded. Hold
  Some minutes fast the time of gold
  When our lips each way clung and clove
  To a face full of love.

  The tears inside our eyelids met,
  Wrung forth with kissing, and wept wet
  The faces cleaving each to each
  Where the blood served for speech.

  The second, with low patient brows
  Bound under aspen-coloured boughs
  And eyes made strong and grave with sleep
  And yet too weak to weep--

  The third, with eager mouth at ease
  Fed from late autumn honey, lees
  Of scarce gold left in latter cells
  With scattered flower-smells--

  Hair sprinkled over with spoilt sweet
  Of ruined roses, wrists and feet
  Slight-swathed, as grassy-girdled sheaves
  Hold in stray poppy-leaves--

  The fourth, with lips whereon has bled
  Some great pale fruit's slow colour, shed
  From the rank bitter husk whence drips
  Faint blood between her lips--

  Made of the heat of whole great Junes
  Burning the blue dark round their moons
  (Each like a mown red marigold)
  So hard the flame keeps hold--

  These are burnt thoroughly away.
  Only the first holds out a day
  Beyond these latter loves that were
  Made of mere heat and air.

  And now the time is winterly
  The first love fades too: none will see,
  When April warms the world anew,
  The place wherein love grew.






  The sea gives her shells to the shingle,
    The earth gives her streams to the sea:
  They are many, but my gift is single,
    My verses, the firstfruits of me.
  Let the wind take the green and the grey leaf,
    Cast forth without fruit upon air;
  Take rose-leaf and vine-leaf and bay-leaf
    Blown loose from the hair.

  The night shakes them round me in legions,
    Dawn drives them before her like dreams;
  Time sheds them like snows on strange regions,
    Swept shoreward on infinite streams;
  Leaves pallid and sombre and ruddy,
    Dead fruits of the fugitive years;
  Some stained as with wine and made bloody,
    And some as with tears.

  Some scattered in seven years' traces,
    As they fell from the boy that was then;
  Long left among idle green places,
    Or gathered but now among men;
  On seas full of wonder and peril,
    Blown white round the capes of the north;
  Or in islands where myrtles are sterile
    And loves bring not forth.

  O daughters of dreams and of stories
    That life is not wearied of yet,
  Faustine, Fragoletta, Dolores,
    Flise and Yolande and Juliette,
  Shall I find you not still, shall I miss you,
    When sleep, that is true or that seems,
  Comes back to me hopeless to kiss you,
    O daughters of dreams?

  They are past as a slumber that passes,
    As the dew of a dawn of old time;
  More frail than the shadows on glasses,
    More fleet than a wave or a rhyme.
  As the waves after ebb drawing seaward,
    When their hollows are full of the night,
  So the birds that flew singing to me-ward
    Recede out of sight.

  The songs of dead seasons, that wander
    On wings of articulate words;
  Lost leaves that the shore-wind may squander,
    Light flocks of untameable birds;
  Some sang to me dreaming in class-time
    And truant in hand as in tongue;
  For the youngest were born of boy's pastime,
    The eldest are young.

  Is there shelter while life in them lingers,
    Is there hearing for songs that recede,
  Tunes touched from a harp with man's fingers
    Or blown with boy's mouth in a reed?
  Is there place in the land of your labour,
    Is there room in your world of delight,
  Where change has not sorrow for neighbour
    And day has not night?

  In their wings though the sea-wind yet quivers,
    Will you spare not a space for them there
  Made green with the running of rivers
    And gracious with temperate air;
  In the fields and the turreted cities,
    That cover from sunshine and rain
  Fair passions and bountiful pities
    And loves without stain?

  In a land of clear colours and stories,
    In a region of shadowless hours,
  Where earth has a garment of glories
    And a murmur of musical flowers;
  In woods where the spring half uncovers
    The flush of her amorous face,
  By the waters that listen for lovers,
    For these is there place?

  For the song-birds of sorrow, that muffle
    Their music as clouds do their fire:
  For the storm-birds of passion, that ruffle
    Wild wings in a wind of desire;
  In the stream of the storm as it settles
    Blown seaward, borne far from the sun,
  Shaken loose on the darkness like petals
    Dropt one after one?

  Though the world of your hands be more gracious
    And lovelier in lordship of things
  Clothed round by sweet art with the spacious
    Warm heaven of her imminent wings,
  Let them enter, unfledged and nigh fainting,
    For the love of old loves and lost times;
  And receive in your palace of painting
    This revel of rhymes.

  Though the seasons of man full of losses
    Make empty the years full of youth,
  If but one thing be constant in crosses,
    Change lays not her hand upon truth;
  Hopes die, and their tombs are for token
    That the grief as the joy of them ends
  Ere time that breaks all men has broken
    The faith between friends.

  Though the many lights dwindle to one light,
    There is help if the heaven has one;
  Though the skies be discrowned of the sunlight
    And the earth dispossessed of the sun,
  They have moonlight and sleep for repayment,
    When, refreshed as a bride and set free,
  With stars and sea-winds in her raiment,
    Night sinks on the sea.








Years have risen and fallen in darkness or in twilight,
  Ages waxed and waned that knew not thee nor thine,
While the world sought light by night and sought not thy light,
  Since the sad last pilgrim left thy dark mid shrine.
Dark the shrine and dumb the fount of song thence welling,
  Save for words more sad than tears of blood, that said:
_Tell the king, on earth has fallen the glorious dwelling,_
  _And the watersprings that spake are quenched and dead._
_Not a cell is left the God, no roof, no cover_
  _In his hand the prophet laurel flowers no more._
And the great king's high sad heart, thy true last lover,
  Felt thine answer pierce and cleave it to the core.
      And he bowed down his hopeless head
        In the drift of the wild world's tide,
      And dying, _Thou hast conquered_, he said,
        _Galilean_; he said it, and died.
      And the world that was thine and was ours
      When the Graces took hands with the Hours
      Grew cold as a winter wave
      In the wind from a wide-mouthed grave,
      As a gulf wide open to swallow
        The light that the world held dear.
    O father of all of us, Paian, Apollo,
        Destroyer and healer, hear!

Age on age thy mouth was mute, thy face was hidden,
  And the lips and eyes that loved thee blind and dumb;
Song forsook their tongues that held thy name forbidden,
  Light their eyes that saw the strange God's kingdom come.
Fire for light and hell for heaven and psalms for pans
  Filled the clearest eyes and lips most sweet of song,
When for chant of Greeks the wail of Galileans
  Made the whole world moan with hymns of wrath and wrong.
Yea, not yet we see thee, father, as they saw thee,
  They that worshipped when the world was theirs and thine,
They whose words had power by thine own power to draw thee
  Down from heaven till earth seemed more than heaven divine.
      For the shades are about us that hover
        When darkness is half withdrawn
      And the skirts of the dead night cover
        The face of the live new dawn.
      For the past is not utterly past
      Though the word on its lips be the last,
      And the time be gone by with its creed
      When men were as beasts that bleed,
      As sheep or as swine that wallow,
        In the shambles of faith and of fear.
    O father of all of us, Paian, Apollo,
        Destroyer and healer, hear!

Yet it may be, lord and father, could we know it,
  We that love thee for our darkness shall have light
More than ever prophet hailed of old or poet
  Standing crowned and robed and sovereign in thy sight.
To the likeness of one God their dreams enthralled thee,
  Who wast greater than all Gods that waned and grew;
Son of God the shining son of Time they called thee,
  Who wast older, O our father, than they knew.
For no thought of man made Gods to love or honour
  Ere the song within the silent soul began,
Nor might earth in dream or deed take heaven upon her
  Till the word was clothed with speech by lips of man.
      And the word and the life wast thou,
        The spirit of man and the breath;
        And before thee the Gods that bow
      Take life at thine hands and death.
      For these are as ghosts that wane,
      That are gone in an age or twain;
      Harsh, merciful, passionate, pure,
      They perish, but thou shalt endure;
      Be their flight with the swan or the swallow,
        They pass as the flight of a year.
    O father of all of us, Paian, Apollo,
        Destroyer and healer, hear!

Thou the word, the light, the life, the breath, the glory,
  Strong to help and heal, to lighten and to slay,
Thine is all the song of man, the world's whole story;
  Not of morning and of evening is thy day.
Old and younger Gods are buried or begotten
  From uprising to downsetting of thy sun,
Risen from eastward, fallen to westward and forgotten,
  And their springs are many, but their end is one.
Divers births of godheads find one death appointed,
  As the soul whence each was born makes room for each;
God by God goes out, discrowned and disanointed,
  But the soul stands fast that gave them shape and speech.
      Is the sun yet cast out of heaven?
        Is the song yet cast out of man?
      Life that had song for its leaven
        To quicken the blood that ran
      Through the veins of the songless years
      More bitter and cold than tears,
      Heaven that had thee for its one
      Light, life, word, witness, O sun,
      Are they soundless and sightless and hollow,
        Without eye, without speech, without ear?
    O father of all of us, Paian, Apollo,
        Destroyer and healer, hear!

Time arose and smote thee silent at his warning,
  Change and darkness fell on men that fell from thee;
Dark thou satest, veiled with light, behind the morning,
  Till the soul of man should lift up eyes and see.
Till the blind mute soul get speech again and eyesight,
  Man may worship not the light of life within;
In his sight the stars whose fires grow dark in thy sight
  Shine as sunbeams on the night of death and sin.
Time again is risen with mightier word of warning,
  Change hath blown again a blast of louder breath;
Clothed with clouds and stars and dreams that melt in morning,
  Lo, the Gods that ruled by grace of sin and death!
      They are conquered, they break, they are stricken,
        Whose might made the whole world pale;
      They are dust that shall rise not or quicken
        Though the world for their death's sake wail.
      As a hound on a wild beast's trace,
      So time has their godhead in chase;
      As wolves when the hunt makes head,
      They are scattered, they fly, they are fled;
      They are fled beyond hail, beyond hollo,
        And the cry of the chase, and the cheer.
    O father of all of us, Paian, Apollo,
        Destroyer and healer, hear!

Day by day thy shadow shines in heaven beholden,
 Even the sun, the shining shadow of thy face:
King, the ways of heaven before thy feet grow golden;
  God, the soul of earth is kindled with thy grace.
In thy lips the speech of man whence Gods were fashioned,
  In thy soul the thought that makes them and unmakes;
By thy light and heat incarnate and impassioned,
  Soul to soul of man gives light for light and takes.
As they knew thy name of old time could we know it,
  Healer called of sickness, slayer invoked of wrong,
Light of eyes that saw thy light, God, king, priest, poet,
  Song should bring thee back to heal us with thy song.
      For thy kingdom is past not away,
        Nor thy power from the place thereof hurled;
      Out of heaven they shall cast not the day,
        They shall cast not out song from the world.
      By the song and the light they give
      We know thy works that they live;
      With the gift thou hast given us of speech
      We praise, we adore, we beseech,
      We arise at thy bidding and follow,
        We cry to thee, answer, appear,
    O father of all of us, Paian, Apollo,
        Destroyer and healer, hear!



Beyond the hollow sunset, ere a star
Take heart in heaven from eastward, while the west,
Fulfilled of watery resonance and rest,
Is as a port with clouds for harbour bar
To fold the fleet in of the winds from far
That stir no plume now of the bland sea's breast:




Above the soft sweep of the breathless bay
Southwestward, far past flight of night and day,
Lower than the sunken sunset sinks, and higher
Than dawn can freak the front of heaven with fire,
My thought with eyes and wings made wide makes way
To find the place of souls that I desire.




If any place for any soul there be,
Disrobed and disentrammelled; if the might,
The fire and force that filled with ardent light
The souls whose shadow is half the light we see,
Survive and be suppressed not of the night;
This hour should show what all day hid from me.




Night knows not, neither is it shown to day,
By sunlight nor by starlight is it shown,
Nor to the full moon's eye nor footfall known,
Their world's untrodden and unkindled way.
Nor is the breath nor music of it blown
With sounds of winter or with winds of May.




But here, where light and darkness reconciled
Hold earth between them as a weanling child
Between the balanced hands of death and birth,
Even as they held the new-born shape of earth
When first life trembled in her limbs and smiled,
Here hope might think to find what hope were worth.




Past Hades, past Elysium, past the long
Slow smooth strong lapse of Lethe--past the toil
Wherein all souls are taken as a spoil,
The Stygian web of waters--if your song
Be quenched not, O our brethren, but be strong
As ere ye too shook off our temporal coil;




If yet these twain survive your worldly breath,
Joy trampling sorrow, life devouring death,
If perfect life possess your life all through
And like your words your souls be deathless too,
To-night, of all whom night encompasseth,
My soul would commune with one soul of you.




Above the sunset might I see thine eyes
That were above the sundawn in our skies,
Son of the songs of morning,--thine that were
First lights to lighten that rekindling air
Wherethrough men saw the front of England rise
And heard thine loudest of the lyre-notes there--




If yet thy fire have not one spark the less,
O Titan, born of her a Titaness,
Across the sunrise and the sunset's mark
Send of thy lyre one sound, thy fire one spark,
To change this face of our unworthiness,
Across this hour dividing light from dark.




To change this face of our chill time, that hears
No song like thine of all that crowd its ears,
Of all its lights that lighten all day long
Sees none like thy most fleet and fiery sphere's
Outlightening Sirius--in its twilight throng
No thunder and no sunrise like thy song.



Hath not the sea-wind swept the sea-line bare
To pave with stainless fire through stainless air
A passage for thine heavenlier feet to tread
Ungrieved of earthly floor-work? hath it spread
No covering splendid as the sun-god's hair
To veil or to reveal thy lordlier head?




Hath not the sunset strewn across the sea
A way majestical enough for thee?
What hour save this should be thine hour--and mine,
If thou have care of any less divine
Than thine own soul; if thou take thought of me,
Marlowe, as all my soul takes thought of thine?




Before the moon's face as before the sun
The morning star and evening star are one
For all men's lands as England. O, if night
Hang hard upon us,--ere our day take flight,
Shed thou some comfort from thy day long done
On us pale children of the latter light!


XIV
For surely, brother and master and lord and king,
Where'er thy footfall and thy face make spring
In all souls' eyes that meet thee wheresoe'er,
And have thy soul for sunshine and sweet air--
Some late love of thine old live land should cling,
Some living love of England, round thee there.



Here from her shore across her sunniest sea
My soul makes question of the sun for thee,
And waves and beams make answer. When thy feet
Made her ways flowerier and their flowers more sweet
With childlike passage of a god to be,
Like spray these waves cast off her foemen's fleet.


Like foam they flung it from her, and like weed
Its wrecks were washed from scornful shoal to shoal,
From rock to rock reverberate; and the whole
Sea laughed and lightened with a deathless deed
That sowed our enemies in her field for seed
And made her shores fit harbourage for thy soul.



Then in her green south fields, a poor man's child,
Thou hadst thy short sweet fill of half-blown joy,
That ripens all of us for time to cloy
With full-blown pain and passion; ere the wild
World caught thee by the fiery heart, and smiled
To make so swift end of the godlike boy.




For thou, if ever godlike foot there trod
These fields of ours, wert surely like a god.
Who knows what splendour of strange dreams was shed
With sacred shadow and glimmer of gold and red
From hallowed windows, over stone and sod,
On thine unbowed bright insubmissive head?




The shadow stayed not, but the splendour stays,
Our brother, till the last of English days.
No day nor night on English earth shall be
For ever, spring nor summer, Junes nor Mays,
But somewhat as a sound or gleam of thee
Shall come on us like morning from the sea.



Like sunrise never wholly risen, nor yet
Quenched; or like sunset never wholly set,
A light to lighten as from living eyes
The cold unlit close lids of one that lies
Dead, or a ray returned from death's far skies
To fire us living lest our lives forget.




For in that heaven what light of lights may be,
What splendour of what stars, what spheres of flame
Sounding, that none may number nor may name,
We know not, even thy brethren; yea, not we
Whose eyes desire the light that lightened thee,
Whose ways and thine are one way and the same.




But if the riddles that in sleep we read,
And trust them not, be flattering truth indeed,
As he that rose our mightiest called them,--he,
Much higher than thou as thou much higher than we--
There, might we say, all flower of all our seed,
All singing souls are as one sounding sea.




All those that here were of thy kind and kin,
Beside thee and below thee, full of love,
Full-souled for song,--and one alone above
Whose only light folds all your glories in--
With all birds' notes from nightingale to dove
Fill the world whither we too fain would win.




The world that sees in heaven the sovereign light
Of sunlike Shakespeare, and the fiery night
Whose stars were watched of Webster; and beneath,
The twin-souled brethren of the single wreath,
Grown in kings' gardens, plucked from pastoral heath,
Wrought with all flowers for all men's heart's delight.




And that fixed fervour, iron-red like Mars,
In the mid moving tide of tenderer stars,
That burned on loves and deeds the darkest done,
Athwart the incestuous prisoner's bride-house bars;
And thine, most highest of all their fires but one,
Our morning star, sole risen before the sun.




And one light risen since theirs to run such race
Thou hast seen, O Phosphor, from thy pride of place.
Thou hast seen Shelley, him that was to thee
As light to fire or dawn to lightning; me,
Me likewise, O our brother, shalt thou see,
And I behold thee, face to glorious face?




You twain the same swift year of manhood swept
Down the steep darkness, and our father wept.
And from the gleam of Apollonian tears
A holier aureole rounds your memories, kept
Most fervent-fresh of all the singing spheres,
And April-coloured through all months and years.




You twain fate spared not half your fiery span;
The longer date fulfils the lesser man.
Ye from beyond the dark dividing date
Stand smiling, crowned as gods with foot on fate.
For stronger was your blessing than his ban,
And earliest whom he struck, he struck too late.




Yet love and loathing, faith and unfaith yet
Bind less to greater souls in unison,
And one desire that makes three spirits as one
Takes great and small as in one spiritual net
Woven out of hope toward what shall yet be done
Ere hate or love remember or forget.




Woven out of faith and hope and love too great
To bear the bonds of life and death and fate:
Woven out of love and hope and faith too dear
To take the print of doubt and change and fear:
And interwoven with lines of wrath and hate
Blood-red with soils of many a sanguine year.




Who cannot hate, can love not; if he grieve,
His tears are barren as the unfruitful rain
That rears no harvest from the green sea's plain,
And as thorns crackling this man's laugh is vain.
Nor can belief touch, kindle, smite, reprieve
His heart who has not heart to disbelieve.



But you, most perfect in your hate and love,
Our great twin-spirited brethren; you that stand
Head by head glittering, hand made fast in hand,
And underfoot the fang-drawn worm that strove
To wound you living; from so far above,
Look love, not scorn, on ours that was your land.




For love we lack, and help and heat and light
To clothe us and to comfort us with might.
What help is ours to take or give? but ye--
O, more than sunrise to the blind cold sea,
That wailed aloud with all her waves all night,
Much more, being much more glorious, should you be.



As fire to frost, as ease to toil, as dew
To flowerless fields, as sleep to slackening pain,
As hope to souls long weaned from hope again
Returning, or as blood revived anew
To dry-drawn limbs and every pulseless vein,
Even so toward us should no man be but you.




One rose before the sunrise was, and one
Before the sunset, lovelier than the sun.
And now the heaven is dark and bright and loud
With wind and starry drift and moon and cloud,
And night's cry rings in straining sheet and shroud,
What help is ours if hope like yours be none?




O well-beloved, our brethren, if ye be,
Then are we not forsaken. This kind earth
Made fragrant once for all time with your birth,
And bright for all men with your love, and worth
The clasp and kiss and wedlock of the sea,
Were not your mother if not your brethren we.



Because the days were dark with gods and kings
And in time's hand the old hours of time as rods,
When force and fear set hope and faith at odds,
Ye failed not nor abased your plume-plucked wings;
And we that front not more disastrous things,
How should we fail in face of kings and gods?



For now the deep dense plumes of night are thinned
Surely with winnowing of the glimmering wind
Whose feet are fledged with morning; and the breath
Begins in heaven that sings the dark to death.
And all the night wherein men groaned and sinned
Sickens at heart to hear what sundawn saith.




O first-born sons of hope and fairest, ye
Whose prows first clove the thought-unsounded sea
Whence all the dark dead centuries rose to bar
The spirit of man lest truth should make him free,
The sunrise and the sunset, seeing one star,
Take heart as we to know you that ye are.




Ye rise not and ye set not; we that say
Ye rise and set like hopes that set and rise
Look yet but seaward from a land-locked bay;
But where at last the sea's line is the sky's
And truth and hope one sunlight in your eyes,
No sunrise and no sunset marks their day.






In a coign of the cliff between lowland and highland,
  At the sea-down's edge between windward and lee,
Walled round with rocks as an inland island,
  The ghost of a garden fronts the sea.
A girdle of brushwood and thorn encloses
  The steep square slope of the blossomless bed
Where the weeds that grew green from the graves of its roses
        Now lie dead.

The fields fall southward, abrupt and broken,
  To the low last edge of the long lone land.
If a step should sound or a word be spoken,
  Would a ghost not rise at the strange guest's hand?
So long have the grey bare walks lain guestless,
  Through branches and briars if a man make way,
He shall find no life but the sea-wind's, restless
        Night and day.

The dense hard passage is blind and stifled
  That crawls by a track none turn to climb
To the strait waste place that the years have rifled
  Of all but the thorns that are touched not of time.
The thorns he spares when the rose is taken;
  The rocks are left when he wastes the plain.
The wind that wanders, the weeds wind-shaken,
        These remain.

Not a flower to be pressed of the foot that falls not;
  As the heart of a dead man the seed-plots are dry;
From the thicket of thorns whence the nightingale calls not,
  Could she call, there were never a rose to reply.
Over the meadows that blossom and wither
  Rings but the note of a sea-bird's song;
Only the sun and the rain come hither
        All year long.

The sun burns sere and the rain dishevels
  One gaunt bleak blossom of scentless breath.
Only the wind here hovers and revels
  In a round where life seems barren as death.
Here there was laughing of old, there was weeping,
  Haply, of lovers none ever will know,
Whose eyes went seaward a hundred sleeping
        Years ago.

Heart handfast in heart as they stood, "Look thither,"
  Did he whisper? "look forth from the flowers to the sea;
For the foam-flowers endure when the rose-blossoms wither,
  And men that love lightly may die--but we?"
And the same wind sang and the same waves whitened,
  And or ever the garden's last petals were shed,
In the lips that had whispered, the eyes that had lightened,
        Love was dead.

Or they loved their life through, and then went whither?
  And were one to the end--but what end who knows?
Love deep as the sea as a rose must wither,
  As the rose-red seaweed that mocks the rose.
Shall the dead take thought for the dead to love them?
  What love was ever as deep as a grave?
They are loveless now as the grass above them
        Or the wave.

All are at one now, roses and lovers,
  Not known of the cliffs and the fields and the sea.
Not a breath of the time that has been hovers
  In the air now soft with a summer to be.
Not a breath shall there sweeten the seasons hereafter
  Of the flowers or the lovers that laugh now or weep,
When as they that are free now of weeping and laughter
        We shall sleep.

Here death may deal not again for ever;
  Here change may come not till all change end.
From the graves they have made they shall rise up never,
  Who have left nought living to ravage and rend.
Earth, stones, and thorns of the wild ground growing,
  While the sun and the rain live, these shall be;
Till a last wind's breath upon all these blowing
        Roll the sea.

Till the slow sea rise and the sheer cliff crumble,
  Till terrace and meadow the deep gulfs drink,
Till the strength of the waves of the high tides humble
  The fields that lessen, the rocks that shrink,
Here now in his triumph where all things falter,
  Stretched out on the spoils that his own hand spread,
As a god self-slain on his own strange altar,
        Death lies dead.






This flower that smells of honey and the sea,
White laurustine, seems in my hand to be
  A white star made of memory long ago
Lit in the heaven of dear times dead to me.

A star out of the skies love used to know
Here held in hand, a stray left yet to show
  What flowers my heart was full of in the days
That are long since gone down dead memory's flow.

Dead memory that revives on doubtful ways,
Half hearkening what the buried season says
  Out of the world of the unapparent dead
Where the lost Aprils are, and the lost Mays.

Flower, once I knew thy star-white brethren bred
Nigh where the last of all the land made head
  Against the sea, a keen-faced promontory,
Flowers on salt wind and sprinkled sea-dews fed.

Their hearts were glad of the free place's glory;
The wind that sang them all his stormy story
  Had talked all winter to the sleepless spray,
And as the sea's their hues were hard and hoary.

Like things born of the sea and the bright day,
They laughed out at the years that could not slay,
  Live sons and joyous of unquiet hours,
And stronger than all storms that range for prey.

And in the close indomitable flowers
A keen-edged odour of the sun and showers
  Was as the smell of the fresh honeycomb
Made sweet for mouths of none but paramours.

Out of the hard green wall of leaves that clomb
They showed like windfalls of the snow-soft foam,
  Or feathers from the weary south-wind's wing,
Fair as the spray that it came shoreward from.

And thou, as white, what word hast thou to bring?
If my heart hearken, whereof wilt thou sing?
  For some sign surely thou too hast to bear,
Some word far south was taught thee of the spring.

White like a white rose, not like these that were
Taught of the wind's mouth and the winter air,
  Poor tender thing of soft Italian bloom,
Where once thou grewest, what else for me grew there?

Born in what spring and on what city's tomb,
By whose hand wast thou reached, and plucked for whom?
  There hangs about thee, could the soul's sense tell,
An odour as of love and of love's doom.

Of days more sweet than thou wast sweet to smell,
Of flower-soft thoughts that came to flower and fell,
  Of loves that lived a lily's life and died,
Of dreams now dwelling where dead roses dwell.

O white birth of the golden mountain-side
That for the sun's love makes its bosom wide
  At sunrise, and with all its woods and flowers
Takes in the morning to its heart of pride!

Thou hast a word of that one land of ours,
And of the fair town called of the Fair Towers,
  A word for me of my San Gimignan,
A word of April's greenest-girdled hours.

Of the old breached walls whereon the wallflowers ran
Called of Saint Fina, breachless now of man,
  Though time with soft feet break them stone by stone,
Who breaks down hour by hour his own reign's span.

Of the old cliff overcome and overgrown
That all that flowerage clothed as flesh clothes bone,
  That garment of acacias made for May,
Whereof here lies one witness overblown.

The fair brave trees with all their flowers at play,
How king-like they stood up into the day!
  How sweet the day was with them, and the night!
Such words of message have dead flowers to say.

This that the winter and the wind made bright,
And this that lived upon Italian light,
  Before I throw them and these words away,
Who knows but I what memories too take flight?





The night last night was strange and shaken:
  More strange the change of you and me.
Once more, for the old love's love forsaken,
  We went out once more toward the sea.

For the old love's love-sake dead and buried,
  One last time, one more and no more,
We watched the waves set in, the serried
  Spears of the tide storming the shore.

Hardly we saw the high moon hanging,
  Heard hardly through the windy night
Far waters ringing, low reefs clanging,
  Under wan skies and waste white light.

With chafe and change of surges chiming,
  The clashing channels rocked and rang
Large music, wave to wild wave timing,
  And all the choral water sang.

Faint lights fell this way, that way floated,
  Quick sparks of sea-fire keen like eyes
From the rolled surf that flashed, and noted
  Shores and faint cliffs and bays and skies.

The ghost of sea that shrank up sighing
  At the sand's edge, a short sad breath
Trembling to touch the goal, and dying
  With weak heart heaved up once in death--

The rustling sand and shingle shaken
  With light sweet touches and small sound--
These could not move us, could not waken
  Hearts to look forth, eyes to look round.

Silent we went an hour together,
  Under grey skies by waters white.
Our hearts were full of windy weather,
  Clouds and blown stars and broken light.

Full of cold clouds and moonbeams drifted
  And streaming storms and straying fires,
Our souls in us were stirred and shifted
  By doubts and dreams and foiled desires.

Across, aslant, a scudding sea-mew
  Swam, dipped, and dropped, and grazed the sea:
And one with me I could not dream you;
  And one with you I could not be.

As the white wing the white wave's fringes
  Touched and slid over and flashed past--
As a pale cloud a pale flame tinges
  From the moon's lowest light and last--

As a star feels the sun and falters,
  Touched to death by diviner eyes--
As on the old gods' untended altars
  The old lire of withered worship dies--

(Once only, once the shrine relighted
  Sees the last fiery shadow shine,
Last shadow of flame and faith benighted,
  Sees falter and flutter and fail the shrine)

So once with fiery breath and flying
  Your winged heart touched mine and went,
And the swift spirits kissed, and sighing,
  Sundered and smiled and were content.

That only touch, that feeling only,
  Enough we found, we found too much;
For the unlit shrine is hardly lonely
  As one the old fire forgets to touch.

Slight as the sea's sight of the sea-mew,
  Slight as the sun's sight of the star:
Enough to show one must not deem you
  For love's sake other than you are.

Who snares and tames with fear and danger
  A bright beast of a fiery kin,
Only to mar, only to change her
  Sleek supple soul and splendid skin?

Easy with blows to mar and maim her,
  Easy with bonds to bind and bruise;
What profit, if she yield her tamer
  The limbs to mar, the soul to lose?

Best leave or take the perfect creature,
  Take all she is or leave complete;
Transmute you will not form or feature,
  Change feet for wings or wings for feet.

Strange eyes, new limbs, can no man give her;
  Sweet is the sweet thing as it is.
No soul she hath, we see, to outlive her;
  Hath she for that no lips to kiss?

So may one read his weird, and reason,
  And with vain drugs assuage no pain.
For each man in his loving season
  Fools and is fooled of these in vain.

Charms that allay not any longing,
  Spells that appease not any grief,
Time brings us all by handfuls, wronging
  All hurts with nothing of relief.

Ah, too soon shot, the fool's bolt misses!
  What help? the world is full of loves;
Night after night of running kisses,
  Chirp after chirp of changing doves.

Should Love disown or disesteem you
  For loving one man more or less?
You could not tame your light white sea-mew,
  Nor I my sleek black pantheress.

For a new soul let whoso please pray,
  We are what life made us, and shall be.
For you the jungle and me the sea-spray,
  And south for you and north for me.

But this one broken foam-white feather
  I throw you off the hither wing,
Splashed stiff with sea-scurf and salt weather,
  This song for sleep to learn and sing--

Sing in your ear when, daytime over,
  You, couched at long length on hot sand
With some sleek sun-discoloured lover,
  Wince from his breach as from a brand:

Till the acrid hour aches out and ceases,
  And the sheathed eyeball sleepier swims,
The deep flank smoothes its dimpling creases.
  And passion loosens all the limbs:

Till dreams of sharp grey north-sea weather
  Fall faint upon your fiery sleep,
As on strange sands a strayed bird's feather
  The wind may choose to lose or keep.

But I, who leave my queen of panthers,
  As a tired honey-heavy bee
Gilt with sweet dust from gold-grained anthers
  Leaves the rose-chalice, what for me?

From the ardours of the chaliced centre,
  From the amorous anthers' golden grime,
That scorch and smutch all wings that enter,
  I fly forth hot from honey-time.

But as to a bee's gilt thighs and winglets
  The flower-dust with the flower-smell clings;
As a snake's mobile rampant ringlets
  Leave the sand marked with print of rings;

So to my soul in surer fashion
  Your savage stamp and savour hangs;
The print and perfume of old passion,
  The wild-beast mark of panther's fangs.






I saw my soul at rest upon a day
  As a bird sleeping in the nest of night,
Among soft leaves that give the starlight way
  To touch its wings but not its eyes with light;
So that it knew as one in visions may,
  And knew not as men waking, of delight.

This was the measure of my soul's delight;
  It had no power of joy to fly by day,
Nor part in the large lordship of the light;
  But in a secret moon-beholden way
Had all its will of dreams and pleasant night,
  And all the love and life that sleepers may.

But such life's triumph as men waking may
  It might not have to feed its faint delight
Between the stars by night and sun by day,
  Shut up with green leaves and a little light;
Because its way was as a lost star's way,
  A world's not wholly known of day or night.

All loves and dreams and sounds and gleams of night
  Made it all music that such minstrels may,
And all they had they gave it of delight;
  But in the full face of the fire of day
What place shall be for any starry light,
  What part of heaven in all the wide sun's way?

Yet the soul woke not, sleeping by the way,
  Watched as a nursling of the large-eyed night,
And sought no strength nor knowledge of the day,
  Nor closer touch conclusive of delight,
Nor mightier joy nor truer than dreamers may,
  Nor more of song than they, nor more of light.

For who sleeps once and sees the secret light
  Whereby sleep shows the soul a fairer way
Between the rise and rest of day and night,
  Shall care no more to fare as all men may,
But be his place of pain or of delight,
  There shall he dwell, beholding night as day.

Song, have thy day and take thy fill of light
  Before the night be fallen across thy way;
Sing while he may, man hath no long delight.





From the depths of the green garden-closes
Where the summer in darkness dozes
  Till autumn pluck from his hand
  An hour-glass that holds not a sand;
From the maze that a flower-belt encloses
  To the stones and sea-grass on the strand
How red was the reign of the roses
  Over the rose-crowned land!

The year of the rose is brief;
From the first blade blown to the sheaf,
  From the thin green leaf to the gold,
  It has time to be sweet and grow old,
To triumph and leave not a leaf
  For witness in winter's sight
  How lovers once in the light
Would mix their breath with its breath,
  And its spirit was quenched not of night,
As love is subdued not of death.

In the red-rose land not a mile
Of the meadows from stile to stile,
  Of the valleys from stream to stream,
  But the air was a long sweet dream
And the earth was a sweet wide smile
  Red-mouthed of a goddess, returned
  From the sea which had borne her and burned,
That with one swift smile of her mouth
  Looked full on the north as it yearned,
And the north was more than the south.

For the north, when winter was long,
In his heart had made him a song,
  And clothed it with wings of desire,
  And shod it with shoon as of fire,
To carry the tale of his wrong
  To the south-west wind by the sea.
  That none might bear it but he
To the ear of the goddess unknown
  Who waits till her time shall be
To take the world for a throne.

In the earth beneath, and above
In the heaven where her name is love,
  She warms with light from her eyes
  The seasons of life as they rise,
And her eyes are as eyes of a dove,
  But the wings that lift her and bear
  As an eagle's, and all her hair
As fire by the wind's breath curled,
  And her passage is song through the air,
And her presence is spring through the world.

So turned she northward and came,
And the white-thorn land was aflame
  With the fires that were shed from her feet,
  That the north, by her love made sweet,
Should be called by a rose-red name;
  And a murmur was heard as of doves,
  And a music beginning of loves
In the light that the roses made,
  Such light as the music loves,
The music of man with maid.

But the days drop one upon one,
And a chill soft wind is begun
  In the heart of the rose-red maze
  That weeps for the roseleaf days
And the reign of the rose undone
  That ruled so long in the light,
  And by spirit, and not by sight,
Through the darkness thrilled with its breath,
  Still ruled in the viewless night,
As love might rule over death.

The time of lovers is brief;
From the fair first joy to the grief
  That tells when love is grown old,
  From the warm wild kiss to the cold,
From the red to the white-rose leaf,
  They have but a season to seem
  As roseleaves lost on a stream
That part not and pass not apart
  As a spirit from dream to dream,
As a sorrow from heart to heart.

From the bloom and the gloom that encloses
The death-bed of Love where he dozes
  Till a relic be left not of sand
  To the hour-glass that breaks in his hand;
From the change in the grey garden-closes
  To the last stray grass of the strand,
A rain and ruin of roses
  Over the red-rose land





Couldst thou not watch with me one hour? Behold,
Dawn skims the sea with flying feet of gold,
With sudden feet that graze the gradual sea;
    Couldst thou not watch with me?




What, not one hour? for star by star the night
Falls, and her thousands world by world take flight;
They die, and day survives, and what of thee?
    Couldst thou not watch with me?




Lo, far in heaven the web of night undone,
And on the sudden sea the gradual sun;
Wave to wave answers, tree responds to tree;
    Couldst thou not watch with me?



Sunbeam by sunbeam creeps from line to line,
Foam by foam quickens on the brightening brine;
Sail by sail passes, flower by flower gets free;
    Couldst thou not watch with me?




Last year, a brief while since, an age ago,
A whole year past, with bud and bloom and snow,
O moon that wast in heaven, what friends were we!
    Couldst thou not watch with me?




Old moons, and last year's flowers, and last year's snows!
Who now saith to thee, moon? or who saith, rose?
O dust and ashes, once found fair to see!
    Couldst thou not watch with me?




O dust and ashes, once thought sweet to smell!
With me it is not, is it with thee well?
O sea-drift blown from windward back to lee!
    Couldst thou not watch with me?




The old year's dead hands are full of their dead flowers.
The old days are full of dead old loves of ours,
Born as a rose, and briefer born than she;
    Couldst thou not watch with me?



Could two days live again of that dead year,
One would say, seeking us and passing here,
_Where is she?_ and one answering, _Where is he?_
    Couldst thou not watch with me?




Nay, those two lovers are not anywhere;
If we were they, none knows us what we were,
Nor aught of all their barren grief and glee.
    Couldst thou not watch with me?




Half false, half fair, all feeble, be my verse
Upon thee not for blessing nor for curse;
For some must stand, and some must fall or flee;
    Couldst thou not watch with me?




As a new moon above spent stars thou wast;
But stars endure after the moon is past.
Couldst thou not watch one hour, though I watch three?
    Couldst thou not watch with me?




What of the night? The night is full, the tide
Storms inland, the most ancient rocks divide;
Yet some endure, and bow nor head nor knee;
    Couldst thou not watch with me?




Since thou art not as these are, go thy ways;
Thou hast no part in all my nights and days.
Lie still, sleep on, be glad--as such things be;
    Thou couldst not watch with me.





There is no woman living that draws breath
So sad as I, though all things sadden her.
There is not one upon life's weariest way
Who is weary as I am weary of all but death.
Toward whom I look as looks the sunflower
All day with all his whole soul toward the sun;
While in the sun's sight I make moan all day,
And all night on my sleepless maiden bed
Weep and call out on death, O Love, and thee,
That thou or he would take me to the dead,
And know not what thing evil I have done
That life should lay such heavy hand on me.

Alas, Love, what is this thou wouldst with me?
What honour shall thou have to quench my breath,
Or what shall my heart broken profit thee?
O Love, O great god Love, what have I done,
That thou shouldst hunger so after my death?
My heart is harmless as my life's first day:
Seek out some false fair woman, and plague her
Till her tears even as my tears fill her bed:
I am the least flower in thy flowery way,
But till my time be come that I be dead
Let me live out my flower-time in the sun
Though my leaves shut before the sunflower.

O Love, Love, Love, the kingly sunflower!
Shall he the sun hath looked on look on me,
That live down here in shade, out of the sun,
Here living in the sorrow and shadow of death?
Shall he that feeds his heart full of the day
Care to give mine eyes light, or my lips breath?
Because she loves him shall my lord love her
Who is as a worm in my lord's kingly way?
I shall not see him or know him alive or dead;
But thou, I know thee, O Love, and pray to thee
That in brief while my brief life-days be done,
And the worm quickly make my marriage-bed.

For underground there is no sleepless bed:
But here since I beheld my sunflower
These eyes have slept not, seeing all night and day
His sunlike eyes, and face fronting the sun.
Wherefore if anywhere be any death,
I would fain find and fold him fast to me,
That I may sleep with the world's eldest dead,
With her that died seven centuries since, and her
That went last night down the night-wandering way.
For this is sleep indeed, when labour is done,
Without love, without dreams, and without breath,
And without thought, O name unnamed! of thee.

Ah, but, forgetting all things, shall I thee?
Wilt thou not be as now about my bed
There underground as here before the sun?
Shall not thy vision vex me alive and dead,
Thy moving vision without form or breath?
I read long since the bitter tale of her
Who read the tale of Launcelot on a day,
And died, and had no quiet after death,
But was moved ever along a weary way,
Lost with her love in the underworld; ah me,
O my king, O my lordly sunflower,
Would God to me too such a thing were done!

But if such sweet and bitter things be done,
Then, flying from life, I shall not fly from thee.
For in that living world without a sun
Thy vision will lay hold upon me dead,
And meet and mock me, and mar my peace in death.
Yet if being wroth God had such pity on her,
Who was a sinner and foolish in her day,
That even in hell they twain should breathe one breath,
Why should he not in some wise pity me?
So if I sleep not in my soft strait bed
I may look up and see my sunflower
As he the sun, in some divine strange way.

O poor my heart, well knowest thou in what way
This sore sweet evil unto us was done.
For on a holy and a heavy day
I was arisen out of my still small bed
To see the knights tilt, and one said to me
"The king," and seeing him, somewhat stopped my breath,
And if the girl spake more, I heard not her,
For only I saw what I shall see when dead,
A kingly flower of knights, a sunflower,
That shone against the sunlight like the sun,
And like a fire, O heart, consuming thee,
The fire of love that lights the pyre of death.

Howbeit I shall not die an evil death
Who have loved in such a sad and sinless way,
That this my love, lord, was no shame to thee.
So when mine eyes are shut against the sun,
O my soul's sun, O the world's sunflower,
Thou nor no man will quite despise me dead.
And dying I pray with all my low last breath
That thy whole life may be as was that day,
That feast-day that made trothplight death and me,
Giving the world light of thy great deeds done;
And that fair face brightening thy bridal bed,
That God be good as God hath been to her.

That all things goodly and glad remain with her,
All things that make glad life and goodly death;
That as a bee sucks from a sunflower
Honey, when summer draws delighted breath,
Her soul may drink of thy soul in like way,
And love make life a fruitful marriage-bed
Where day may bring forth fruits of joy to day
And night to night till days and nights be dead.
And as she gives light of her love to thee,
Give thou to her the old glory of days long done;
And either give some heat of light to me,
To warm me where I sleep without the sun.

O sunflower made drunken with the sun,
O knight whose lady's heart draws thine to her,
Great king, glad lover, I have a word to thee.
There is a weed lives out of the sun's way,
Hid from the heat deep in the meadow's bed,
That swoons and whitens at the wind's least breath,
A flower star-shaped, that all a summer day
Will gaze her soul out on the sunflower
For very love till twilight finds her dead.
But the great sunflower heeds not her poor death,
Knows not when all her loving life is done;
And so much knows my lord the king of me.

Aye, all day long he has no eye for me;
With golden eye following the golden sun
From rose-coloured to purple-pillowed bed,
From birthplace to the flame-lit place of death,
From eastern end to western of his way.
So mine eye follows thee, my sunflower,
So the white star-flower turns and yearns to thee,
The sick weak weed, not well alive or dead,
Trod underfoot if any pass by her,
Pale, without colour of summer or summer breath
In the shrunk shuddering petals, that have done
No work but love, and die before the day.

But thou, to-day, to-morrow, and every day,
Be glad and great, O love whose love slays me.
Thy fervent flower made fruitful from the sun
Shall drop its golden seed in the world's way,
That all men thereof nourished shall praise thee
For grain and flower and fruit of works well done;
Till thy shed seed, O shining sunflower,
Bring forth such growth of the world's garden-bed
As like the sun shall outlive age and death.
And yet I would thine heart had heed of her
Who loves thee alive; but not till she be dead.
Come, Love, then, quickly, and take her utmost breath.

Song, speak for me who am dumb as are the dead;
From my sad bed of tears I send forth thee,
To fly all day from sun's birth to sun's death
Down the sun's way after the flying sun,
For love of her that gave thee wings and breath,
Ere day be done, to seek the sunflower.





Son of the lightning and the light that glows
    Beyond the lightning's or the morning's light,
    Soul splendid with all-righteous love of right,
In whose keen fire all hopes and fears and woes
Were clean consumed, and from their ashes rose
    Transfigured, and intolerable to sight
    Save of purged eyes whose lids had cast off night,
In love's and wisdom's likeness when they close,
Embracing, and between them truth stands fast,
    Embraced of either; thou whose feet were set
    On English earth while this was England yet,
Our friend that art, our Sidney's friend that wast,
Heart hardier found and higher than all men's past,
    Shall we not praise thee though thine own forget?




Lift up thy light on us and on thine own,
    O soul whose spirit on earth was as a rod
    To scourge off priests, a sword to pierce their God,
A staff for man's free thought to walk alone,
A lamp to lead him far from shrine and throne
    On ways untrodden where his fathers trod
    Ere earth's heart withered at a high priest's nod
And all men's mouths that made not prayer made moan.
From bonds and torments and the ravening flame
    Surely thy spirit of sense rose up to greet
    Lucretius, where such only spirits meet,
And walk with him apart till Shelley came
    To make the heaven of heavens more heavenly sweet
And mix with yours a third incorporate name.





Shall I strew on thee rose or rue or laurel,
    Brother, on this that was the veil of thee?
    Or quiet sea-flower moulded by the sea,
Or simplest growth of meadow-sweet or sorrel,
    Such as the summer-sleepy Dryads weave,
    Waked up by snow-soft sudden rains at eve?
Or wilt thou rather, as on earth before,
    Half-faded fiery blossoms, pale with heat
And full of bitter summer, but more sweet
    To thee than gleanings of a northern shore
    Trod by no tropic feet?



For always thee the fervid languid glories
    Allured of heavier suns in mightier skies;
    Thine ears knew all the wandering watery sighs
Where the sea sobs round Lesbian promontories,
    The barren kiss of piteous wave to wave
    That knows not where is that Leucadian grave
Which hides too deep the supreme head of song.
    Ah, salt and sterile as her kisses were,
    The wild sea winds her and the green gulfs bear
Hither and thither, and vex and work her wrong,
    Blind gods that cannot spare.



Thou sawest, in thine old singing season, brother,
    Secrets and sorrows unbeheld of us:
    Fierce loves, and lovely leaf-buds poisonous,
Bare to thy subtler eye, but for none other
    Blowing by night in some unbreathed-in clime;
    The hidden harvest of luxurious time,
Sin without shape, and pleasure without speech;
    And where strange dreams in a tumultuous sleep
    Make the shut eyes of stricken spirits weep;
And with each face thou sawest the shadow on each,
    Seeing as men sow men reap.



O sleepless heart and sombre soul unsleeping,
    That were athirst for sleep and no more life
    And no more love, for peace and no more strife!
Now the dim gods of death have in their keeping
    Spirit and body and all the springs of song,
    Is it well now where love can do no wrong,
Where stingless pleasure has no foam or fang
    Behind the unopening closure of her lips?
    Is it not well where soul from body slips
And flesh from bone divides without a pang
    As dew from flower-bell drips?



It is enough; the end and the beginning
    Are one thing to thee, who art past the end.
    O hand unclasped of unbeholden friend,
For thee no fruits to pluck, no palms for winning,
    No triumph and no labour and no lust,
    Only dead yew-leaves and a little dust.
O quiet eyes wherein the light saith nought,
    Whereto the day is dumb, nor any night
    With obscure finger silences your sight,
Nor in your speech the sudden soul speaks thought,
    Sleep, and have sleep for light.


Now all strange hours and all strange loves are over,
    Dreams and desires and sombre songs and sweet,
    Hast thou found place at the great knees and feet
Of some pale Titan-woman like a lover,
    Such as thy vision here solicited,
    Under the shadow of her fair vast head,
The deep division of prodigious breasts,
    The solemn slope of mighty limbs asleep,
    The weight of awful tresses that still keep
The savour and shade of old-world pine-forests
    Where the wet hill-winds weep?


Hast thou found any likeness for thy vision?
    O gardener of strange flowers, what bud, what bloom,
    Hast thou found sown, what gathered in the gloom?
What of despair, of rapture, of derision,
    What of life is there, what of ill or good?
    Are the fruits grey like dust or bright like blood?
Does the dim ground grow any seed of ours,
    The faint fields quicken any terrene root,
    In low lands where the sun and moon are mute
And all the stars keep silence? Are there flowers
    At all, or any fruit?


Alas, but though my flying song flies after,
    O sweet strange elder singer, thy more fleet
    Singing, and footprints of thy fleeter feet,
Some dim derision of mysterious laughter
    From the blind tongueless warders of the dead,
    Some gainless glimpse of Proserpine's veiled head,
Some little sound of unregarded tears
    Wept by effaced unprofitable eyes,
    And from pale mouths some cadence of dead sighs--
These only, these the hearkening spirit hears,
    Sees only such things rise.


Thou art far too far for wings of words to follow,
    Far too far off for thought or any prayer.
    What ails us with thee, who art wind and air?
What ails us gazing where all seen is hollow?
    Yet with some fancy, yet with some desire,
    Dreams pursue death as winds a flying fire,
Our dreams pursue our dead and do not find.
    Still, and more swift than they, the thin flame flies,
    The low light fails us in elusive skies,
Still the foiled earnest ear is deaf, and blind
    Are still the eluded eyes.


Not thee, O never thee, in all time's changes,
    Not thee, but this the sound of thy sad soul,
    The shadow of thy swift spirit, this shut scroll
I lay my hand on, and not death estranges
    My spirit from communion of thy song--
    These memories and these melodies that throng
Veiled porches of a Muse funereal--
    These I salute, these touch, these clasp and fold
    As though a hand were in my hand to hold,
Or through mine ears a mourning musical
    Of many mourners rolled.



I among these, I also, in such station
    As when the pyre was charred, and piled the sods,
    And offering to the dead made, and their gods,
The old mourners had, standing to make libation,
    I stand, and to the gods and to the dead
    Do reverence without prayer or praise, and shed
Offering to these unknown, the gods of gloom,
    And what of honey and spice my seedlands bear,
    And what I may of fruits in this chilled air,
And lay, Orestes-like, across the tomb
    A curl of severed hair.


But by no hand nor any treason stricken,
    Not like the low-lying head of Him, the King,
    The flame that made of Troy a ruinous thing,
Thou liest, and on this dust no tears could quicken
    There fall no tears like theirs that all men hear
    Fall tear by sweet imperishable tear
Down the opening leaves of holy poets' pages.
    Thee not Orestes, not Electra mourns;
    But bending us-ward with memorial urns
The most high Muses that fulfil all ages
    Weep, and our God's heart yearns.



For, sparing of his sacred strength, not often
    Among us darkling here the lord of light
    Makes manifest his music and his might
In hearts that open and in lips that soften
    With the soft flame and heat of songs that shine.
    Thy lips indeed he touched with bitter wine,
And nourished them indeed with bitter bread;
    Yet surely from his hand thy soul's food came,
    The fire that scarred thy spirit at his flame
Was lighted, and thine hungering heart he fed
    Who feeds our hearts with fame.



Therefore he too now at thy soul's sunsetting,
    God of all suns and songs, he too bends down
    To mix his laurel with thy cypress crown,
And save thy dust from blame and from forgetting.
    Therefore he too, seeing all thou wert and art,
    Compassionate, with sad and sacred heart,
Mourns thee of many his children the last dead,
    And hallows with strange tears and alien sighs
    Thine unmelodious mouth and sunless eyes,
And over thine irrevocable head
    Sheds light from the under skies.

And one weeps with him in the ways Lethean,
    And stains with tears her changing bosom chill:
    That obscure Venus of the hollow hill,
That thing transformed which was the Cytherean,
    With lips that lost their Grecian laugh divine
    Long since, and face no more called Erycine;
A ghost, a bitter and luxurious god.
    Thee also with fair flesh and singing spell
    Did she, a sad and second prey, compel
Into the footless places once more trod,
    And shadows hot from hell.


And now no sacred staff shall break in blossom,
    No choral salutation lure to light
    A spirit sick with perfume and sweet night
And love's tired eyes and hands and barren bosom.
    There is no help for these things; none to mend
    And none to mar; not all our songs, O friend,
Will make death clear or make life durable.
    Howbeit with rose and ivy and wild vine
    And with wild notes about this dust of thine
At least I fill the place where white dreams dwell
    And wreathe an unseen shrine.

Sleep; and if life was bitter to thee, pardon,
    If sweet, give thanks; thou hast no more to live;
    And to give thanks is good, and to forgive.
Out of the mystic and the mournful garden
    Where all day through thine hands in barren braid
    Wove the sick flowers of secrecy and shade,
Green buds of sorrow and sin, and remnants grey,
    Sweet-smelling, pale with poison, sanguine-hearted,
    Passions that sprang from sleep and thoughts that started,
Shall death not bring us all as thee one day
    Among the days departed?

For thee, O now a silent soul, my brother,
    Take at my hands this garland, and farewell.
    Thin is the leaf, and chill the wintry smell,
And chill the solemn earth, a fatal mother,
    With sadder than the Niobean womb,
    And in the hollow of her breasts a tomb.
Content thee, howsoe'er, whose days are done;
    There lies not any troublous thing before,
    Nor sight nor sound to war against thee more,
For whom all winds are quiet as the sun,
    All waters as the shore.


Death, what hast thou to do with me? So saith
Love, with eyes set against the face of Death;
  What have I done, O thou strong Death, to thee,
That mine own lips should wither from thy breath?

Though thou be blind as fire or as the sea,
Why should thy waves and storms make war on me?
  Is it for hate thou hast to find me fair,
Or for desire to kiss, if it might be,

My very mouth of song, and kill me there?
So with keen rains vexing his crownless hair.
  With bright feet bruised from no delightful way,
Through darkness and the disenchanted air,

Lost Love went weeping half a winter's day.
And the armd wind that smote him seemed to say,
  How shall the dew live when the dawn is fled,
Or wherefore should the Mayflower outlast May?

Then Death took Love by the right hand and said,
Smiling: Come now and look upon thy dead.
  But Love cast down the glories of his eyes,
And bowed down like a flower his flowerless head.

And Death spake, saying: What ails thee in such wise,
Being god, to shut thy sight up from the skies?
  If thou canst see not, hast thou ears to hear?
Or is thy soul too as a leaf that dies?

Even as he spake with fleshless lips of fear,
But soft as sleep sings in a tired man's ear,
  Behold, the winter was not, and its might
Fell, and fruits broke forth of the barren year.

And upon earth was largess of great light,
And moving music winged for worldwide flight,
  And shapes and sounds of gods beheld and heard,
And day's foot set upon the neck of night.

And with such song the hollow ways were stirred
As of a god's heart hidden in a bird,
  Or as the whole soul of the sun in spring
Should find full utterance in one flower-soft word,

And all the season should break forth and sing
From one flower's lips, in one rose triumphing;
  Such breath and light of song as of a flame
Made ears and spirits of them that heard it ring.

And Love beholding knew not for the same
The shape that led him, nor in face nor name,
  For he was bright and great of thews and fair,
And in Love's eyes he was not Death, but Fame.

Not that grey ghost whose life is empty and bare
And his limbs moulded out of mortal air,
  A cloud of change that shifts into a shower
And dies and leaves no light for time to wear:

But a god clothed with his own joy and power,
A god re-risen out of his mortal hour
  Immortal, king and lord of time and space,
With eyes that look on them as from a tower.

And where he stood the pale sepulchral place
Bloomed, as new life might in a bloodless face,
  And where men sorrowing came to seek a tomb
With funeral flowers and tears for grief and grace,

They saw with light as of a world in bloom
The portal of the House of Fame illume
  The ways of life wherein we toiling tread,
And watched the darkness as a brand consume.

And through the gates where rule the deathless dead
The sound of a new singer's soul was shed
  That sang among his kinsfolk, and a beam
Shot from the star on a new ruler's head.

A new star lighting the Lethean stream,
A new song mixed into the song supreme
  Made of all souls of singers and their might,
That makes of life and time and death a dream.

Thy star, thy song, O soul that in our sight
Wast as a sun that made for man's delight
  Flowers and all fruits in season, being so near
The sun-god's face, our god that gives us light.

To him of all gods that we love or fear
Thou amongst all men by thy name wast dear,
  Dear to the god that gives us spirit of song
To bind and burn all hearts of men that hear.

The god that makes men's words too sweet and strong
For life or time or death to do them wrong,
  Who sealed with his thy spirit for a sign
And filled it with his breath thy whole life long.

Who made thy moist lips fiery with new wine
Pressed from the grapes of song, the sovereign vine,
  And with all love of all things loveliest
Gave thy soul power to make them more divine.

That thou might'st breathe upon the breathless rest
Of marble, till the brows and lips and breast
  Felt fall from off them as a cancelled curse
That speechless sleep wherewith they lived opprest.

Who gave thee strength and heat of spirit to pierce
All clouds of form and colour that disperse,
  And leave the spirit of beauty to remould
In types of clean chryselephantine verse.

Who gave thee words more golden than fine gold
To carve in shapes more glorious than of old,
  And build thy songs up in the sight of time
As statues set in godhead manifold:

In sight and scorn of temporal change and clime
That meet the sun re-risen with refluent rhyme
  --As god to god might answer face to face--
From lips whereon the morning strikes sublime.

Dear to the god, our god who gave thee place
Among the chosen of days, the royal race,
  The lords of light, whose eyes of old and ears
Saw even on earth and heard him for a space.

There are the souls of those once mortal years
That wrought with fire of joy and light of tears
  In words divine as deeds that grew thereof
Such music as he swoons with love who hears.

There are the lives that lighten from above
Our under lives, the spheral souls that move
  Through the ancient heaven of song-illumined air
Whence we that hear them singing die with love.

There all the crowned Hellenic heads, and there
The old gods who made men godlike as they were,
  The lyric lips wherefrom all songs take fire,
Live eyes, and light of Apollonian hair.

There, round the sovereign passion of that lyre
Which the stars hear and tremble with desire,
  The ninefold light Pierian is made one
That here we see divided, and aspire,

Seeing, after this or that crown to be won;
But where they hear the singing of the sun,
  All form, all sound, all colour, and all thought
Are as one body and soul in unison.

There the song sung shines as a picture wrought,
The painted mouths sing that on earth say nought,
  The carven limbs have sense of blood and growth
And large-eyed life that seeks nor lacks not aught.

There all the music of thy living mouth
Lives, and all loves wrought of thine hand in youth
  And bound about the breasts and brows with gold
And coloured pale or dusk from north or south.

Fair living things made to thy will of old,
Born of thy lips, no births of mortal mould,
  That in the world of song about thee wait
Where thought and truth are one and manifold.

Within the graven lintels of the gate
That here divides our vision and our fate,
  The dreams we walk in and the truths of sleep,
All sense and spirit have life inseparate.

There what one thinks, is his to grasp and keep;
There are no dreams, but very joys to reap,
  No foiled desires that die before delight,
No fears to see across our joys and weep.

There hast thou all thy will of thought and sight,
All hope for harvest, and all heaven for flight;
  The sunrise of whose golden-mouthed glad head
To paler songless ghosts was heat and light.

Here where the sunset of our year is red
Men think of thee as of the summer dead,
  Gone forth before the snows, before thy day,
With unshod feet, with brows unchapleted.

Couldst thou not wait till age had wound, they say,
Round those wreathed brows his soft white blossoms? Nay,
  Why shouldst thou vex thy soul with this harsh air,
Thy bright-winged soul, once free to take its way?

Nor for men's reverence hadst thou need to wear
The holy flower of grey time-hallowed hair;
  Nor were it fit that aught of thee grew old,
Fair lover all thy days of all things fair.

And hear we not thy words of molten gold
Singing? or is their light and heat acold
  Whereat men warmed their spirits? Nay, for all
These yet are with us, ours to hear and hold.

The lovely laughter, the clear tears, the call
Of love to love on ways where shadows fall,
  Through doors of dim division and disguise,
And music made of doubts unmusical;

The love that caught strange light from death's own eyes,[1]
And filled death's lips with fiery words and sighs,
  And half asleep let feed from veins of his
Her close red warm snake's mouth, Egyptian-wise:

And that great night of love more strange than this,[2]
When she that made the whole world's bale and bliss
  Made king of all the world's desire a slave,
And killed him in mid kingdom with a kiss;

Veiled loves that shifted shapes and shafts, and gave,[3]
Laughing, strange gifts to hands that durst not crave,
  Flowers double-blossomed, fruits of scent and hue
Sweet as the bride-bed, stranger than the grave;

All joys and wonders of old lives and new
That ever in love's shine or shadow grew,
  And all the grief whereof he dreams and grieves,
And all sweet roots fed on his light and dew;

All these through thee our spirit of sense perceives,
As threads in the unseen woof thy music weaves,
  Birds caught and snared that fill our ears with thee,
Bay-blossoms in thy wreath of brow-bound leaves.

Mixed with the masque of death's old comedy
Though thou too pass, have here our flowers, that we
  For all the flowers thou gav'st upon thee shed,
And pass not crownless to Persephone.

Blue lotus-blooms and white and rosy-red
We wind with poppies for thy silent head,
  And on this margin of the sundering sea
Leave thy sweet light to rise upon the dead.



This is the golden book of spirit and sense,
    The holy writ of beauty; he that wrought
    Made it with dreams and faultless words and thought
That seeks and finds and loses in the dense
Dim air of life that beauty's excellence
    Wherewith love makes one hour of life distraught
    And all hours after follow and find not aught.
Here is that height of all love's eminence
Where man may breathe but for a breathing-space
    And feel his soul burn as an altar-fire
    To the unknown God of unachieved desire,
And from the middle mystery of the place
    Watch lights that break, hear sounds as of a quire,
But see not twice unveiled the veiled God's face.



In vain men tell us time can alter
Old loves or make old memories falter,
  That with the old year the old year's life closes.
The old dew still falls on the old sweet flowers,
The old sun revives the new-fledged hours,
  The old summer rears the new-born roses.


Much more a Muse that bears upon her
Raiment and wreath and flower of honour,
  Gathered long since and long since woven,
Fades not or falls as fall the vernal
Blossoms that bear no fruit eternal,
  By summer or winter charred or cloven.


No time casts down, no time upraises,
Such loves, such memories, and such praises,
  As need no grace of sun or shower,
No saving screen from frost or thunder
To tend and house around and under
  The imperishable and fearless flower.

Old thanks, old thoughts, old aspirations,
Outlive men's lives and lives of nations,
  Dead, but for one thing which survives--
The inalienable and unpriced treasure,
The old joy of power, the old pride of pleasure,
  That lives in light above men's lives.


In the garden of death, where the singers whose names are deathless
  One with another make music unheard of men,
Where the dead sweet roses fade not of lips long breathless,
  And the fair eyes shine that shall weep not or change again,
Who comes now crowned with the blossom of snow-white years?
What music is this that the world of the dead men hears?


Beloved of men, whose words on our lips were honey,
  Whose name in our ears and our fathers' ears was sweet,
Like summer gone forth of the land his songs made sunny,
  To the beautiful veiled bright world where the glad ghosts meet,
Child, father, bridegroom and bride, and anguish and rest,
No soul shall pass of a singer than this more blest.


Blest for the years' sweet sake that were filled and brightened,
  As a forest with birds, with the fruit and the flower of his song;
For the souls' sake blest that heard, and their cares were lightened,
  For the hearts' sake blest that have fostered his name so long;
By the living and dead lips blest that have loved his name,
And clothed with their praise and crowned with their love for fame.



Ah, fair and fragrant his fame as flowers that close not,
  That shrink not by day for heat or for cold by night,
As a thought in the heart shall increase when the heart's self knows not,
  Shall endure in our ears as a sound, in our eyes as a light;
Shall wax with the years that wane and the seasons' chime,
As a white rose thornless that grows in the garden of time.


The same year calls, and one goes hence with another,
  And men sit sad that were glad for their sweet songs' sake;
The same year beckons, and elder with younger brother
  Takes mutely the cup from his hand that we all shall take.[1]
They pass ere the leaves be past or the snows be come;
And the birds are loud, but the lips that outsang them dumb.


Time takes them home that we loved, fair names and famous,
  To the soft long sleep, to the broad sweet bosom of death;
But the flower of their souls he shall take not away to shame us,
  Nor the lips lack song for ever that now lack breath.
For with us shall the music and perfume that die not dwell,
Though the dead to our dead bid welcome, and we farewell.


Life may give for love to death
  Little; what are life's gifts worth
  To the dead wrapt round with earth?
Yet from lips of living breath
  Sighs or words we are fain to give,
  All that yet, while yet we live,
Life may give for love to death.

Dead so long before his day,
  Passed out of the Italian sun
  To the dark where all is done,
Fallen upon the verge of May;
  Here at life's and April's end
  How should song salute my friend
Dead so long before his day?

Not a kindlier life or sweeter
  Time, that lights and quenches men,
  Now may quench or light again,
Mingling with the mystic metre
  Woven of all men's lives with his
  Not a clearer note than this,
Not a kindlier life or sweeter.

In this heavenliest part of earth
  He that living loved the light,
  Light and song, may rest aright,
One in death, if strange in birth,
  With the deathless dead that make
  Life the lovelier for their sake
In this heavenliest part of earth.

Light, and song, and sleep at last--
  Struggling hands and suppliant knees
  Get no goodlier gift than these.
Song that holds remembrance fast,
  Light that lightens death, attend
  Round their graves who have to friend
Light, and song, and sleep at last.




He had no children, who for love of men,
  Being God, endured of Gods such things as thou,
  Father; nor on his thunder-beaten brow
Fell such a woe as bows thine head again,
Twice bowed before, though godlike, in man's ken,
  And seen too high for any stroke to bow
  Save this of some strange God's that bends it now
The third time with such weight as bruised it then.
Fain would grief speak, fain utter for love's sake
Some word; but comfort who might bid thee take?
  What God in your own tongue shall talk with thee,
Showing how all souls that look upon the sun
Shall be for thee one spirit and thy son,
  And thy soul's child the soul of man to be?


Spring, and the light and sound of things on earth
Requickening, all within our green sea's girth;
A time of passage or a time of birth
  Fourscore years since as this year, first and last.

The sun is all about the world we see,
The breath and strength of very spring; and we
Live, love, and feed on our own hearts; but he
  Whose heart fed mine has passed into the past.

Past, all things born with sense and blood and breath;
The flesh hears nought that now the spirit saith.
If death be like as birth and birth as death,
  The first was fair--more fair should be the last.

Fourscore years since, and come but one month more
The count were perfect of his mortal score
Whose sail went seaward yesterday from shore
  To cross the last of many an unsailed sea.

Light, love and labour up to life's last height,
These three were stars unsetting in his sight;
Even as the sun is life and heat and light
  And sets not nor is dark when dark are we.

The life, the spirit, and the work were one
That here--ah, who shall say, that here are done?
Not I, that know not; father, not thy son,
  For all the darkness of the night and sea.



    Out of the dark sweet sleep
    Where no dreams laugh or weep
      Borne through bright gates of birth
    Into the dim sweet light
    Where day still dreams of night
      While heaven takes form on earth,
White rose of spirit and flesh, red lily of love,
    What note of song have we
    Fit for the birds and thee,
Fair nestling couched beneath the mother-dove?

    Nay, in some more divine
    Small speechless song of thine
      Some news too good for words,
    Heart-hushed and smiling, we
    Might hope to have of thee,
      The youngest of God's birds,
If thy sweet sense might mix itself with ours,
    If ours might understand
    The language of thy land,
Ere thine become the tongue of mortal hours:

    Ere thy lips learn too soon
    Their soft first human tune,
      Sweet, but less sweet than now,
    And thy raised eyes to read
    Glad and good things indeed,
      But none so sweet as thou:
Ere thought lift up their flower-soft lids to see
    What life and love on earth
    Bring thee for gifts at birth,
But none so good as thine who hast given us thee:

    Now, ere thy sense forget
    The heaven that fills it yet,
      Now, sleeping or awake,
    If thou couldst tell, or we
    Ask and be heard of thee,
      For love's undying sake,
From thy dumb lips divine and bright mute speech
    Such news might touch our ear
    That then would burn to hear
Too high a message now for man's to reach.

    Ere the gold hair of corn
    Had withered wast thou born,
      To make the good time glad;
    The time that but last year
    Fell colder than a tear
      On hearts and hopes turned sad,
High hopes and hearts requickening in thy dawn,
    Even theirs whose life-springs, child,
    Filled thine with life and smiled,
But then wept blood for half their own withdrawn.[1]

    If death and birth be one,
    And set with rise of sun,
      And truth with dreams divine,
    Some word might come with thee
    From over the still sea
      Deep hid in shade or shine,
Crossed by the crossing sails of death and birth,
    Word of some sweet new thing
    Fit for such lips to bring,
Some word of love, some afterthought of earth.

    If love be strong as death,
    By what so natural breath
      As thine could this be said?
    By what so lovely way
    Could love send word to say
      He lives and is not dead?
Such word alone were fit for only thee,
    If his and thine have met
    Where spirits rise and set,
His whom we see not, thine whom scarce we see:

    His there new-born, as thou
    New-born among us now;
      His, here so fruitful-souled,
    Now veiled and silent here,
    Now dumb as thou last year,
      A ghost of one year old:
If lights that change their sphere in changing meet,
    Some ray might his not give
    To thine who wast to live,
And make thy present with his past life sweet?

    Let dreams that laugh or weep,
    All glad and sad dreams, sleep;
      Truth more than dreams is dear.
    Let thoughts that change and fly,
    Sweet thoughts and swift, go by;
      More than all thought is here.
More than all hope can forge or memory feign
    The life that in our eyes,
    Made out of love's life, lies,
And flower-like fed with love for sun and rain.

    Twice royal in its root
    The sweet small olive-shoot
      Here set in sacred earth;
    Twice dowered with glorious grace
    From either heaven-born race
      First blended in its birth;
Fair God or Genius of so fair an hour,
    For love of either name
    Twice crowned, with love and fame,
Guard and be gracious to the fair-named flower.




When their last hour shall rise
Pale on these mortal eyes,
Herself like one that dies,
  And kiss me dying
The cold last kiss, and fold
Close round my limbs her cold
Soft shade as raiment rolled
  And leave them lying,

If aught my soul would say
Might move to hear me pray
The birth-god of my day
  That he might hearken,
This grace my heart should crave,
To find no landward grave
That worldly springs make brave,
  World's winters darken,

Nor grow through gradual hours
The cold blind seed of flowers
Made by new beams and showers
  From limbs that moulder,
Nor take my part with earth,
But find for death's new birth
A bed of larger girth,
  More chaste and colder.

Not earth's for spring and fall,
Not earth's at heart, not all
Earth's making, though men call
  Earth only mother,
Not hers at heart she bare
Me, but thy child, O fair
Sea, and thy brother's care,
  The wind thy brother.

Yours was I born, and ye,
The sea-wind and the sea,
Made all my soul in me
  A song for ever,
A harp to string and smite
For love's sake of the bright
Wind and the sea's delight,
  To fail them never:

Not while on this side death
I hear what either saith
And drink of either's breath
  With heart's thanksgiving
That in my veins like wine
Some sharp salt blood of thine,
Some springtide pulse of brine,
  Yet leaps up living.

When thy salt lips wellnigh
Sucked in my mouth's last sigh,
Grudged I so much to die
  This death as others?
Was it no ease to think
The chalice from whose brink
Fate gave me death to drink
  Was thine--my mother's?

Thee too, the all-fostering earth,
Fair as thy fairest birth,
More than thy worthiest worth,
  We call, we know thee,
More sweet and just and dread
Than live men highest of head
Or even thy holiest dead
  Laid low below thee.

The sunbeam on the sheaf,
The dewfall on the leaf,
All joy, all grace, all grief,
  Are thine for giving;
Of thee our loves are born,
Our lives and loves, that mourn
And triumph; tares with corn,
  Dead seed with living:

All good and ill things done
In eyeshot of the sun
At last in thee made one
  Rest well contented;
All words of all man's breath
And works he doth or saith,
All wholly done to death,
  None long lamented.

A slave to sons of thee,
Thou, seeming, yet art free;
But who shall make the sea
  Serve even in seeming?
What plough shall bid it bear
Seed to the sun and the air,
Fruit for thy strong sons' fare,
  Fresh wine's foam streaming?

What oldworld son of thine,
Made drunk with death as wine,
Hath drunk the bright sea's brine
  With lips of laughter?
Thy blood they drink; but he
Who hath drunken of the sea
Once deeplier than of thee
  Shall drink not after.

Of thee thy sons of men
Drink deep, and thirst again;
For wine in feasts, and then
  In fields for slaughter;
But thirst shall touch not him
Who hath felt with sense grown dim
Rise, covering lip and limb,
  The wan sea's water.

All fire of thirst that aches
The salt sea cools and slakes
More than all springs or lakes,
  Freshets or shallows;
Wells where no beam can burn
Through frondage of the fern
That hides from hart and hern
  The haunt it hallows.

Peace with all graves on earth
For death or sleep or birth
Be alway, one in worth
  One with another;
But when my time shall be,
O mother, O my sea,
Alive or dead, take me,
  Me too, my mother.



I hid my heart in a nest of roses,
  Out of the sun's way, hidden apart;
In a softer bed than the soft white snow's is,
  Under the roses I hid my heart.
  Why would it sleep not? why should it start,
When never a leaf of the rose-tree stirred?
  What made sleep flutter his wings and part?
Only the song of a secret bird.

Lie still, I said, for the wind's wing closes,
  And mild leaves muffle the keen sun's dart;
Lie still, for the wind on the warm sea dozes,
  And the wind is unquieter yet than thou art.
  Does a thought in thee still as a thorn's wound smart?
Does the fang still fret thee of hope deferred?
  What bids the lids of thy sleep dispart?
Only the song of a secret bird.

The green land's name that a charm encloses,
  It never was writ in the traveller's chart,
And sweet on its trees as the fruit that grows is,
  It never was sold in the merchant's mart.
  The swallows of dreams through its dim fields dart,
And sleep's are the tunes in its tree-tops heard;
  No hound's note wakens the wildwood hart,
Only the song of a secret bird.




In the world of dreams I have chosen my part,
  To sleep for a season and hear no word
Of true love's truth or of light love's art,
  Only the song of a secret bird.



A sea that heaves with horror of the night,
    As maddened by the moon that hangs aghast
    With strain and torment of the ravening blast,
Haggard as hell, a bleak blind bloody light;
No shore but one red reef of rock in sight,
    Whereon the waifs of many a wreck were cast
    And shattered in the fierce nights overpast
Wherein more souls toward hell than heaven took flight;
And 'twixt the shark-toothed rocks and swallowing shoals
A cry as out of hell from all these souls
    Sent through the sheer gorge of the slaughtering sea,
Whose thousand throats, full-fed with life by death,
Fill the black air with foam and furious breath;
  And over all these one star--Chastity.



Bird of the bitter bright grey golden morn
  Scarce risen upon the dusk of dolorous years,
First of us all and sweetest singer born
  Whose far shrill note the world of new men hears
  Cleave the cold shuddering shade as twilight clears;
When song new-born put off the old world's attire
And felt its tune on her changed lips expire,
  Writ foremost on the roll of them that came
Fresh girt for service of the latter lyre,
  Villon, our sad bad glad mad brother's name!

Alas the joy, the sorrow, and the scorn,
  That clothed thy life with hopes and sins and fears,
And gave thee stones for bread and tares for corn
  And plume-plucked gaol-birds for thy starveling peers
  Till death clipt close their flight with shameful shears;
Till shifts came short and loves were hard to hire,
When lilt of song nor twitch of twangling wire
  Could buy thee bread or kisses; when light fame
Spurned like a ball and haled through brake and briar,
  Villon, our sad bad glad mad brother's name!

Poor splendid wings so frayed and soiled and torn!
  Poor kind wild eyes so dashed with light quick tears!
Poor perfect voice, most blithe when most forlorn,
  That rings athwart the sea whence no man steers
  Like joy-bells crossed with death-bells in our ears!
What far delight has cooled the fierce desire
That like some ravenous bird was strong to tire
  On that frail flesh and soul consumed with flame,
But left more sweet than roses to respire,
  Villon, our sad bad glad mad brother's name?



Prince of sweet songs made out of tears and fire,
A harlot was thy nurse, a God thy sire;
  Shame soiled thy song, and song assoiled thy shame.
But from thy feet now death has washed the mire,
Love reads out first at head of all our quire,
  Villon, our sad bad glad mad brother's name.



Now the days are all gone over
Of our singing, love by lover,
Days of summer-coloured seas
Blown adrift through beam and breeze.

Now the nights are all past over
Of our dreaming, dreams that hover
In a mist of fair false things,
Nights afloat on wide wan wings.

Now the loves with faith for mother,
Now the fears with hope for brother,
Scarce are with us as strange words,
Notes from songs of last year's birds.

Now all good that comes or goes is
As the smell of last year's roses,
As the radiance in our eyes
Shot from summer's ere he dies.

Now the morning faintlier risen
Seems no God come forth of prison,
But a bird of plume-plucked wing,
Pale with thoughts of evening.

Now hath hope, outraced in running,
Given the torch up of his cunning
And the palm he thought to wear
Even to his own strong child--despair.



In the lower lands of day
  On the hither side of night,
There is nothing that will stay,
  There are all things soft to sight;
  Lighted shade and shadowy light
In the wayside and the way,
  Hours the sun has spared to smite,
Flowers the rain has left to play.

Shall these hours run down and say
  No good thing of thee and me?
Time that made us and will slay
  Laughs at love in me and thee;
  But if here the flowers may see
One whole hour of amorous breath,
  Time shall die, and love shall be
Lord as time was over death.



Love laid his sleepless head
On a thorny rosy bed;
And his eyes with tears were red,
And pale his lips as the dead.

And fear and sorrow and scorn
Kept watch by his head forlorn,
Till the night was overworn
And the world was merry with morn.

And Joy came up with the day
And kissed Love's lips as he lay,
And the watchers ghostly and grey
Sped from his pillow away.

And his eyes as the dawn grew bright,
And his lips waxed ruddy as light:
Sorrow may reign for a night,
But day shall bring back delight.



O tender time that love thinks long to see,
  Sweet foot of spring that with her footfall sows
  Late snowlike flowery leavings of the snows,
Be not too long irresolute to be;
O mother-month, where have they hidden thee?
  Out of the pale time of the flowerless rose
I reach my heart out toward the springtime lands,
  I stretch my spirit forth to the fair hours,
      The purplest of the prime;
I lean my soul down over them, with hands
  Made wide to take the ghostly growths of flowers;
      I send my love back to the lovely time.



Where has the greenwood hid thy gracious head?
  Veiled with what visions while the grey world grieves,
  Or muffled with what shadows of green leaves,
What warm intangible green shadows spread
To sweeten the sweet twilight for thy bed?
  What sleep enchants thee? what delight deceives?
Where the deep dreamlike dew before the dawn
  Feels not the fingers of the sunlight yet
      Its silver web unweave,
Thy footless ghost on some unfooted lawn
  Whose air the unrisen sunbeams fear to fret
      Lives a ghost's life of daylong dawn and eve.


Sunrise it sees not, neither set of star,
  Large nightfall, nor imperial plenilune,
  Nor strong sweet shape of the full-breasted noon;
But where the silver-sandalled shadows are,
Too soft for arrows of the sun to mar,
  Moves with the mild gait of an ungrown moon:
Hard overhead the half-lit crescent swims,
  The tender-coloured night draws hardly breath,
      The light is listening;
They watch the dawn of slender-shapen limbs,
  Virginal, born again of doubtful death,
      Chill foster-father of the weanling spring.


As sweet desire of day before the day,
  As dreams of love before the true love born,
  From the outer edge of winter overworn
The ghost arisen of May before the May
Takes through dim air her unawakened way,
  The gracious ghost of morning risen ere morn.
With little unblown breasts and child-eyed looks
  Following, the very maid, the girl-child spring,
      Lifts windward her bright brows,
Dips her light feet in warm and moving brooks,
  And kindles with her own mouth's colouring
      The fearful firstlings of the plumeless boughs.


I seek thee sleeping, and awhile I see,
  Fair face that art not, how thy maiden breath
  Shall put at last the deadly days to death
And fill the fields and fire the woods with thee
And seaward hollows where my feet would be
  When heaven shall hear the word that April saith
To change the cold heart of the weary time,
  To stir and soften all the time to tears,
      Tears joyfuller than mirth;
As even to May's clear height the young days climb
  With feet not swifter than those fair first years
      Whose flowers revive not with thy flowers on earth.



I would not bid thee, though I might, give back
  One good thing youth has given and borne away;
I crave not any comfort of the day
That is not, nor on time's retrodden track
Would turn to meet the white-robed hours or black
  That long since left me on their mortal way;
Nor light nor love that has been, nor the breath
  That comes with morning from the sun to be
      And sets light hope on fire;
No fruit, no flower thought once too fair for death,
  No flower nor hour once fallen from life's green tree,
      No leaf once plucked or once fulfilled desire.


The morning song beneath the stars that fled
  With twilight through the moonless mountain air,
  While youth with burning lips and wreathless hair
Sang toward the sun that was to crown his head,
Rising; the hopes that triumphed and fell dead,
  The sweet swift eyes and songs of hours that were;
These may'st thou not give back for ever; these,
  As at the sea's heart all her wrecks lie waste,
      Lie deeper than the sea;
But flowers thou may'st, and winds, and hours of ease,
  And all its April to the world thou may'st
      Give back, and half my April back to me.




Love, what ailed thee to leave life that was made
    lovely, we thought, with love?
What sweet visions of sleep lured thee away, down
    from the light above?

What strange faces of dreams, voices that called,
    hands that were raised to wave,
Lured or led thee, alas, out of the sun, down to the
    sunless grave?

Ah, thy luminous eyes! once was their light fed with
    the fire of day;
Now their shadowy lids cover them close, hush them
    and hide away.

Ah, thy snow-coloured hands! once were they chains,
    mighty to bind me fast;
Now no blood in them burns, mindless of love, senseless
    of passion past.

Ah, thy beautiful hair! so was it once braided for
    me, for me;
Now for death is it crowned, only for death, lover
    and lord of thee.

Sweet, the kisses of death set on thy lips, colder are
    they than mine;
Colder surely than past kisses that love poured for
    thy lips as wine.

Lov'st thou death? is his face fairer than love's,
    brighter to look upon?
Seest thou light in his eyes, light by which love's
    pales and is overshone?

Lo the roses of death, grey as the dust, chiller of leaf
    than snow!
Why let fall from thy hand love's that were thine,
    roses that loved thee so?

Large red lilies of love, sceptral and tall, lovely for
    eyes to see;
Thornless blossom of love, full of the sun, fruits that
    were reared for thee.

Now death's poppies alone circle thy hair, girdle thy
    breasts as white;
Bloodless blossoms of death, leaves that have sprung
    never against the light.

Nay then, sleep if thou wilt; love is content; what
    should he do to weep?
Sweet was love to thee once; now in thine eyes
    sweeter than love is sleep.



For a day and a night Love sang to us, played with us,
  Folded us round from the dark and the light;
And our hearts were fulfilled of the music he made with us,
Made with our hearts and our lips while he stayed with us,
  Stayed in mid passage his pinions from flight
        For a day and a night.

From his foes that kept watch with his wings had he hidden us,
  Covered us close from the eyes that would smite,
From the feet that had tracked and the tongues that had chidden us
Sheltering in shade of the myrtles forbidden us
  Spirit and flesh growing one with delight
        For a day and a night.

But his wings will not rest and his feet will not stay for us:
  Morning is here in the joy of its might;
With his breath has he sweetened a night and a day for us;
Now let him pass, and the myrtles make way for us;
  Love can but last in us here at his height
        For a day and a night.



        Thou whose beauty
        Knows no duty
Due to love that moves thee never;
        Thou whose mercies
        Are men's curses,
And thy smile a scourge for ever;




        Thou that givest
        Death and livest
On the death of thy sweet giving;
        Thou that sparest
        Not nor carest
Though thy scorn leave no love living;




        Thou whose rootless
        Flower is fruitless
As the pride its heart encloses,
        But thine eyes are
        As May skies are,
And thy words like spoken roses;



        Thou whose grace is
        In men's faces
Fierce and wayward as thy will is;
        Thou whose peerless
        Eyes are tearless,
And thy thoughts as cold sweet lilies;



        Thou that takest
        Hearts and makest
Wrecks of loves to strew behind thee,
        Whom the swallow
        Sure should follow,
Finding summer where we find thee;




        Thou that wakest
        Hearts and breakest,
And thy broken hearts forgive thee,
        That wilt make no
        Pause and take no
Gift that love for love might give thee;




        Thou that bindest
        Eyes and blindest,
Serving worst who served thee longest;
        Thou that speakest,
        And the weakest
Heart is his that was the strongest;




        Take in season
        Thought with reason;
Think what gifts are ours for giving;
        Hear what beauty
        Owes of duty
To the love that keeps it living.




        Dust that covers
        Long dead lovers
Song blows off with breath that brightens;
        At its flashes
        Their white ashes
Burst in bloom that lives and lightens.




        Had they bent not
        Head or lent not
Ear to love and amorous duties,
        Song had never
        Saved for ever,
Love, the least of all their beauties.




        All the golden
        Names of olden
Women yet by men's love cherished,
        All our dearest
        Thoughts hold nearest,
Had they loved not, all had perished.




        If no fruit is
        Of thy beauties,
Tell me yet, since none may win them,
        What and wherefore
        Love should care for
Of all good things hidden in them?




        Pain for profit
        Comes but of it,
If the lips that lure their lover's
        Hold no treasure
        Past the measure
Of the lightest hour that hovers.




        If they give not
        Or forgive not
Gifts or thefts for grace or guerdon,
        Love that misses
        Fruit of kisses
Long will bear no thankless burden.



        If they care not
        Though love were not,
If no breath of his burn through them,
        Joy must borrow
        Song from sorrow,
Fear teach hope the way to woo them.




        Grief has measures
        Soft as pleasure's,
Fear has moods that hope lies deep in,
        Songs to sing him,
        Dreams to bring him,
And a red-rose bed to sleep in.




        Hope with fearless
        Looks and tearless
Lies and laughs too near the thunder;
        Fear hath sweeter
        Speech and meeter
For heart's love to hide him under.




        Joy by daytime
        Fills his playtime
Full of songs loud mirth takes pride in;
        Night and morrow
        Weave round sorrow
Thoughts as soft as sleep to hide in.




        Graceless faces,
        Loveless graces,
Are but motes in light that quicken,
        Sands that run down
        Ere the sundown,
Roseleaves dead ere autumn sicken.




        Fair and fruitless
        Charms are bootless
Spells to ward off age's peril;
        Lips that give not
        Love shall live not,
Eyes that meet not eyes are sterile.




        But the beauty
        Bound in duty
Fast to love that falls off never
        Love shall cherish
        Lest it perish,
And its root bears fruit for ever.



O great and wise, clear-souled and high of heart,
  One the last flower of Catholic love, that grows
  Amid bare thorns their only thornless rose,
From the fierce juggling of the priests' loud mart
Yet alien, yet unspotted and apart
  From the blind hard foul rout whose shameless shows
  Mock the sweet heaven whose secret no man knows
With prayers and curses and the soothsayer's art;
One like a storm-god of the northern foam
  Strong, wrought of rock that breasts and breaks the sea
    And thunders back its thunder, rhyme for rhyme
    Answering, as though to outroar the tides of time
  And bid the world's wave back--what song should be
Theirs that with praise would bring and sing you home?




With all our hearts we praise you whom ye hate,
  High souls that hate us; for our hopes are higher,
  And higher than yours the goal of our desire,
Though high your ends be as your hearts are great.
Your world of Gods and kings, of shrine and state,
  Was of the night when hope and fear stood nigher,
  Wherein men walked by light of stars and fire
Till man by day stood equal with his fate.
Honour not hate we give you, love not fear,
  Last prophets of past kind, who fill the dome
Of great dead Gods with wrath and wail, nor hear
  Time's word and man's: "Go honoured hence, go home,
Night's childless children; here your hour is done;
Pass with the stars, and leave us with the sun."





Above the spring-tide sundawn of the year,
    A sunlike star, not born of day or night,
    Filled the fair heaven of spring with heavenlier light,
Made of all ages orbed in one sole sphere
Whose light was as a Titan's smile or tear;
    Then rose a ray more flowerlike, starry white,
    Like a child's eye grown lovelier with delight,
Sweet as a child's heart-lightening laugh to hear;
And last a fire from heaven, a fiery rain
    As of God's wrath on the unclean cities, fell
    And lit the shuddering shades of half-seen hell
That shrank before it and were cloven in twain;
    A beacon fired by lightning, whence all time
    Sees red the bare black ruins of a crime.






What is gold worth, say,
Worth for work or play,
Worth to keep or pay,
Hide or throw away,
    Hope about or fear?
What is love worth, pray?
    Worth a tear?

Golden on the mould
Lie the dead leaves rolled
Of the wet woods old,
Yellow leaves and cold,
    Woods without a dove;
Gold is worth but gold;
    Love's worth love.





    The word of the sun to the sky,
      The word of the wind to the sea,
        The word of the moon to the night,
                        What may it be?




    The sense to the flower of the fly,
      The sense of the bird to the tree,
        The sense to the cloud of the light,
                        Who can tell me?




    The song of the fields to the kye,
      The song of the lime to the bee,
        The song of the depth to the height,
                        Who knows all three?



    The message of April to May
      That May sends on into June
        And June gives out to July
                        For birthday boon;





    The delight of the dawn in the day,
      The delight of the day in the noon,
        The delight of a song in a sigh
                        That breaks the tune;




    The secret of passing away,
      The cost of the change of the moon,
        None knows it with ear or with eye,
                        But all will soon.



    The live wave's love for the shore,
      The shore's for the wave as it dies,
        The love of the thunder-fire
                        That sears the skies,




    We shall know not though life wax hoar,
      Till all life, spent into sighs,
        Burn out as consumed with desire
                        Of death's strange eyes;




    Till the secret be secret no more
      In the light of one hour as it flies,
        Be the hour as of suns that expire
                        Or suns that rise.




      Outside the garden
      The wet skies harden;
      The gates are barred on
        The summer side:
      "Shut out the flower-time,
      Sunbeam and shower-time;
      Make way for our time,"
        Wild winds have cried.
      Green once and cheery,
      The woods, worn weary,
      Sigh as the dreary
        Weak sun goes home:
      A great wind grapples
      The wave, and dapples
  The dead green floor of the sea with foam.




      Through fell and moorland,
      And salt-sea foreland,
      Our noisy norland
        Resounds and rings;
      Waste waves thereunder
      Are blown in sunder,
      And winds make thunder
        With cloudwide wings;
      Sea-drift makes dimmer
      The beacon's glimmer;
      Nor sail nor swimmer
        Can try the tides;
      And snowdrifts thicken
      Where, when leaves quicken,
  Under the heather the sundew hides.



      Green land and red land,
      Moorside and headland,
      Are white as dead land,
        Are all as one;
      Nor honied heather,
      Nor bells to gather,
      Fair with fair weather
        And faithful sun:
      Fierce frost has eaten
      All flowers that sweeten
      The fells rain-beaten;
        And winds their foes
      Have made the snow's bed
      Down in the rose-bed;
  Deep in the snow's bed bury the rose.




      Bury her deeper
      Than any sleeper;
      Sweet dreams will keep her
        All day, all night;
      Though sleep benumb her
      And time o'ercome her,
      She dreams of summer,
        And takes delight,
      Dreaming and sleeping
      In love's good keeping,
      While rain is weeping
        And no leaves cling;
      Winds will come bringing her
      Comfort, and singing her
  Stories and songs and good news of the spring.




      Draw the white curtain
      Close, and be certain
      She takes no hurt in
        Her soft low bed;
      She feels no colder,
      And grows not older,
      Though snows enfold her
        From foot to head;
      She turns not chilly
      Like weed and lily
      In marsh or hilly
        High watershed,
      Or green soft island
      In lakes of highland;
  She sleeps awhile, and she is not dead.



      For all the hours,
      Come sun, come showers,
      Are friends of flowers,
        And fairies all;
      When frost entrapped her,
      They came and lapped her
      In leaves, and wrapped her
        With shroud and pall;
      In red leaves wound her,
      With dead leaves bound her
      Dead brows, and round her
        A death-knell rang;
      Rang the death-bell for her,
      Sang, "is it well for her,
  Well, is it well with you, rose?" they sang.




      O what and where is
      The rose now, fairies,
      So shrill the air is,
        So wild the sky?
      Poor last of roses,
      Her worst of woes is
      The noise she knows is
        The winter's cry;
      His hunting hollo
      Has scared the swallow;
      Fain would she follow
        And fain would fly:
      But wind unsettles
      Her poor last petals;
  Had she but wings, and she would not die.




      Come, as you love her,
      Come close and cover
      Her white face over,
        And forth again
      Ere sunset glances
      On foam that dances,
      Through lowering lances
        Of bright white rain;
      And make your playtime
      Of winter's daytime,
      As if the Maytime
        Were here to sing;
      As if the snowballs
      Were soft like blowballs,
  Blown in a mist from the stalk in the spring.




      Each reed that grows in
      Our stream is frozen,
      The fields it flows in
        Are hard and black;
      The water-fairy
      Waits wise and wary
      Till time shall vary
        And thaws come back.
      "O sister, water,"
      The wind besought her,
      "O twin-born daughter
        Of spring with me,
      Stay with me, play with me,
      Take the warm way with me,
  Straight for the summer and oversea."




      But winds will vary,
      And wise and wary
      The patient fairy
        Of water waits;
      All shrunk and wizen,
      In iron prison,
      Till spring re-risen
        Unbar the gates;
      Till, as with clamour
      Of axe and hammer,
      Chained streams that stammer
        And struggle in straits
      Burst bonds that shiver,
      And thaws deliver
  The roaring river in stormy spates.




      In fierce March weather
      White waves break tether,
      And whirled together
        At either hand,
      Like weeds uplifted,
      The tree-trunks rifted
      In spars are drifted,
        Like foam or sand,
      Past swamp and sallow
      And reed-beds callow,
      Through pool and shallow,
        To wind and lee,
      Till, no more tongue-tied,
      Full flood and young tide
  Roar down the rapids and storm the sea.




      As men's cheeks faded
      On shores invaded,
      When shorewards waded
        The lords of fight;
      When churl and craven
      Saw hard on haven
      The wide-winged raven
        At mainmast height;
      When monks affrighted
      To windward sighted
      The birds full-flighted
        Of swift sea-kings;
      So earth turns paler
      When Storm the sailor
  Steers in with a roar in the race of his wings.




      O strong sea-sailor,
      Whose cheek turns paler
      For wind or hail or
        For fear of thee?
      O far sea-farer,
      O thunder-bearer,
      Thy songs are rarer
        Than soft songs be.
      O fleet-foot stranger,
      O north-sea ranger
      Through days of danger
        And ways of fear,
      Blow thy horn here for us,
      Blow the sky clear for us,
  Send us the song of the sea to hear.




      Roll the strong stream of it
      Up, till the scream of it
      Wake from a dream of it
        Children that sleep,
      Seamen that fare for them
      Forth, with a prayer for them;
      Shall not God care for them,
        Angels not keep?
      Spare not the surges
      Thy stormy scourges;
      Spare us the dirges
        Of wives that weep.
      Turn back the waves for us:
      Dig no fresh graves for us,
  Wind, in the manifold gulfs of the deep.




      O stout north-easter,
      Sea-king, land-waster,
      For all thine haste, or
        Thy stormy skill,
      Yet hadst thou never,
      For all endeavour,
      Strength to dissever
        Or strength to spill,
      Save of his giving
      Who gave our living,
      Whose hands are weaving
        What ours fulfil;
      Whose feet tread under
      The storms and thunder;
  Who made our wonder to work his will.




      His years and hours,
      His world's blind powers,
      His stars and flowers,
        His nights and days,
      Sea-tide and river,
      And waves that shiver,
      Praise God, the giver
        Of tongues to praise.
      Winds in their blowing,
      And fruits in growing;
      Time in its going,
        While time shall be;
      In death and living,
      With one thanksgiving,
  Praise him whose hand is the strength of the sea.





Rose-red lilies that bloom on the banner;
  Rose-cheeked gardens that revel in spring;
      Rose-mouthed acacias that laugh as they climb,
Like plumes for a queen's hand fashioned to fan her
  With wind more soft than a wild dove's wing,
       What do they sing in the spring of their time?

If this be the rose that the world hears singing,
  Soft in the soft night, loud in the day,
       Songs for the fire-flies to dance as they hear;
If that be the song of the nightingale, springing
  Forth in the form of a rose in May,
       What do they say of the way of the year?

What of the way of the world gone Maying,
  What of the work of the buds in the bowers,
       What of the will of the wind on the wall,
Fluttering the wall-flowers, sighing and playing,
  Shrinking again as a bird that cowers,
       Thinking of hours when the flowers have to fall?

Out of the throats of the loud birds showering,
  Out of the folds where the flag-lilies leap,
       Out of the mouths of the roses stirred,
Out of the herbs on the walls reflowering,
  Out of the heights where the sheer snows sleep,
       Out of the deep and the steep, one word.

One from the lips of the lily-flames leaping,
  The glad red lilies that burn in our sight,
       The great live lilies for standard and crown;
One from the steeps where the pines stand sleeping,
  One from the deep land, one from the height,
       One from the light and the might of the town.

The lowlands laugh with delight of the highlands,
  Whence May winds feed them with balm and breath
       From hills that beheld in the years behind
A shape as of one from the blest souls' islands,
  Made fair by a soul too fair for death,
       With eyes on the light that should smite them blind.

Vallombrosa remotely remembers,
  Perchance, what still to us seems so near
       That time not darkens it, change not mars,
The foot that she knew when her leaves were September's,
  The face lift up to the star-blind seer,
       That saw from his prison arisen his stars.

And Pisa broods on her dead, not mourning,
  For love of her loveliness given them in fee;
       And Prato gleams with the glad monk's gift
Whose hand was there as the hand of morning;
  And Siena, set in the sand's red sea,
       Lifts loftier her head than the red sand's drift.

And far to the fair south-westward lightens,
  Girdled and sandalled and plumed with flowers,
       At sunset over the love-lit lands,
The hill-side's crown where the wild hill brightens,
  Saint Fina's town of the Beautiful Towers,
       Hailing the sun with a hundred hands.

Land of us all that have loved thee dearliest,
  Mother of men that were lords of man,
       Whose name in the world's heart works as a spell,
My last song's light, and the star of mine earliest,
  As we turn from thee, sweet, who wast ours for a span,
       Fare well we may not who say farewell.




The sundawn fills the land
Full as a feaster's hand
Fills full with bloom of bland
       Bright wine his cup;
Flows full to flood that fills
From the arch of air it thrills
Those rust-red iron hills
       With morning up.

Dawn, as a panther springs,
With fierce and fire-fledged wings
Leaps on the land that rings
       From her bright feet
Through all its lava-black
Cones that cast answer back
And cliffs of footless track
       Where thunders meet.

The light speaks wide and loud
From deeps blown clean of cloud
As though day's heart were proud
       And heaven's were glad;
The towers brown-striped and grey
Take fire from heaven of day
As though the prayers they pray
       Their answers had.

Higher in these high first hours
Wax all the keen church towers,
And higher all hearts of ours
       Than the old hills' crown,
Higher than the pillared height
Of that strange cliff-side bright
With basalt towers whose might
       Strong time bows down.

And the old fierce ruin there
Of the old wild princes' lair
Whose blood in mine hath share
       Gapes gaunt and great
Toward heaven that long ago
Watched all the wan land's woe
Whereon the wind would blow
       Of their bleak hate.

Dead are those deeds; but yet
Their memory seems to fret
Lands that might else forget
       That old world's brand;
Dead all their sins and days;
Yet in this red clime's rays
Some fiery memory stays
       That sears their land.




The year lies fallen and faded
On cliffs by clouds invaded,
With tongues of storms upbraided,
       With wrath of waves bedinned;
And inland, wild with warning,
As in deaf ears or scorning,
The clarion even and morning
       Rings of the south-west wind.

The wild bents wane and wither
In blasts whose breath bows hither
Their grey-grown heads and thither,
       Unblest of rain or sun;
The pale fierce heavens are crowded
With shapes like dreams beclouded,
As though the old year enshrouded
       Lay, long ere life were done.

Full-charged with oldworld wonders,
From dusk Tintagel thunders
A note that smites and sunders
       The hard frore fields of air;
A trumpet stormier-sounded
Than once from lists rebounded
When strong men sense-confounded
       Fell thick in tourney there.

From scarce a duskier dwelling
Such notes of wail rose welling
Through the outer darkness, telling
       In the awful singer's ears
What souls the darkness covers,
What love-lost souls of lovers,
Whose cry still hangs and hovers
       In each man's born that hears.

For there by Hector's brother
And yet some thousand other
He that had grief to mother
       Passed pale from Dante's sight;
With one fast linked as fearless,
Perchance, there only tearless;
Iseult and Tristram, peerless
       And perfect queen and knight.

A shrill-winged sound comes flying
North, as of wild souls crying
The cry of things undying,
       That know what life must be;
Or as the old year's heart, stricken
Too sore for hope to quicken
By thoughts like thorns that thicken,
       Broke, breaking with the sea.




Gehazi by the hue that chills thy cheek
  And Pilate by the hue that sears thine hand
  Whence all earth's waters cannot wash the brand
That signs thy soul a manslayer's though thou speak
All Christ, with lips most murderous and most meek--
  Thou set thy foot where England's used to stand!
  Thou reach thy rod forth over Indian land!
Slave of the slaves that call thee lord, and weak
As their foul tongues who praise thee! son of them
Whose presence put the snows and stars to shame
  In centuries dead and damned that reek below
Curse-consecrated, crowned with crime and flame,
  To them that bare thee like them shalt thou go
  Forth of man's life--a leper white as snow.




Call for clear water, wash thine hands, be clean,
  Cry, _What is truth?_ O Pilate; thou shalt know
  Haply too soon, and gnash thy teeth for woe
Ere the outer darkness take thee round unseen
That hides the red ghosts of thy race obscene
  Bound nine times round with hell's most dolorous flow,
  And in its pools thy crownless head lie low
By his of Spain who dared an English queen
With half a world to hearten him for fight,
Till the wind gave his warriors and their might
  To shipwreck and the corpse-encumbered sea.
But thou, take heed, ere yet thy lips wax white,
  Lest as it was with Philip so it be,
  O white of name and red of hand, with thee.





How many sons, how many generations,
  For how long years hast thou bewept, and known
  Nor end of torment nor surcease of moan,
Rachel or Rizpah, wofullest of nations,
Crowned with the crowning sign of desolations,
  And couldst not even scare off with hand or groan
  Those carrion birds devouring bone by bone
The children of thy thousand tribulations?
Thou wast our warrior once; thy sons long dead
Against a foe less foul than this made head,
  Poland, in years that sound and shine afar;
Ere the east beheld in thy bright sword-blade's stead
  The rotten corpse-light of the Russian star
  That lights towards hell his bondslaves and their Czar.





Light of our fathers' eyes, and in our own
  Star of the unsetting sunset! for thy name,
  That on the front of noon was as a flame
In the great year nigh thirty years agone
When all the heavens of Europe shook and shone
  With stormy wind and lightning, keeps its fame
  And bears its witness all day through the same;
Not for past days and great deeds past alone,
Kossuth, we praise thee as our Landor praised,
But that now too we know thy voice upraised,
Thy voice, the trumpet of the truth of God,
  Thine hand, the thunder-bearer's, raised to smite
As with heaven's lightning for a sword and rod
  Men's heads abased before the Muscovite.





Meseemeth I heard cry and groan
  That sweet who was the armourer's maid;
For her young years she made sore moan,
  And right upon this wise she said;
  "Ah fierce old age with foul bald head,
To spoil fair things thou art over fain;
  Who holdeth me? who? would God I were dead!
Would God I were well dead and slain!




"Lo, thou hast broken the sweet yoke
  That my high beauty held above
All priests and clerks and merchant-folk;
  There was not one but for my love
  Would give me gold and gold enough,
Though sorrow his very heart had riven,
  To win from me such wage thereof
As now no thief would take if given.




"I was right chary of the same,
  God wot it was my great folly,
For love of one sly knave of them,
  Good store of that same sweet had he;
  For all my subtle wiles, perdie,
God wot I loved him well enow;
  Right evilly he handled me,
But he loved well my gold, I trow.



"Though I gat bruises green and black,
  I loved him never the less a jot;
Though he bound burdens on my back,
  If he said 'Kiss me and heed it not'
  Right little pain I felt, God wot,
When that foul thief's mouth, found so sweet,
  Kissed me--Much good thereof I got!
I keep the sin and the shame of it.




"And he died thirty year agone.
  I am old now, no sweet thing to see;
By God, though, when I think thereon,
  And of that good glad time, woe's me,
  And stare upon my changed body
Stark naked, that has been so sweet,
  Lean, wizen, like a small dry tree,
I am nigh mad with the pain of it.




"Where is my faultless forehead's white,
  The lifted eyebrows, soft gold hair,
Eyes wide apart and keen of sight,
  With subtle skill in the amorous air;
  The straight nose, great nor small, but fair,
The small carved ears of shapeliest growth,
  Chin dimpling, colour good to wear,
And sweet red splendid kissing mouth?




"The shapely slender shoulders small,
  Long arms, hands wrought in glorious wise,
Round little breasts, the hips withal
  High, full of flesh, not scant of size,
  Fit for all amorous masteries;


"A writhled forehead, hair gone grey,
  Fallen eyebrows, eyes gone blind and red,
Their laughs and looks all fled away,
  Yea, all that smote men's hearts are fled;
  The bowed nose, fallen from goodlihead;
Foul flapping ears like water-flags;
  Peaked chin, and cheeks all waste and dead,
And lips that are two skinny rags:



"Thus endeth all the beauty of us.
  The arms made short, the hands made lean,
The shoulders bowed and ruinous,
  The breasts, alack! all fallen in;
  The flanks too, like the breasts, grown thin;

  For the lank thighs, no thighs but skin,
They are specked with spots like sausage-meat.



"So we make moan for the old sweet days,
  Poor old light women, two or three
Squatting above the straw-fire's blaze,
  The bosom crushed against the knee,
  Like faggots on a heap we be,
Round fires soon lit, soon quenched and done;
  And we were once so sweet, even we!
Thus fareth many and many an one."




Now take your fill of love and glee,
       And after balls and banquets hie;
In the end ye'll get no good for fee,
       But just heads broken by and by;
       Light loves make beasts of men that sigh;
They changed the faith of Solomon,
       And left not Samson lights to spy;
Good luck has he that deals with none!

Sweet Orpheus, lord of minstrelsy,
       For this with flute and pipe came nigh
The danger of the dog's heads three
       That ravening at hell's door doth lie;
       Fain was Narcissus, fair and shy,
For love's love lightly lost and won,
       In a deep well to drown and die;
Good luck has he that deals with none!

Sardana, flower of chivalry,
       Who conquered Crete with horn and cry,
For this was fain a maid to be
       And learn with girls the thread to ply;
       King David, wise in prophecy,
Forgot the fear of God for one
       Seen washing either shapely thigh;
Good luck has he that deals with none!

For this did Amnon, craftily
       Feigning to eat of cakes of rye,
Deflower his sister fair to see,
       Which was foul incest; and hereby
       Was Herod moved, it is no lie,
To lop the head of Baptist John
       For dance and jig and psaltery;
Good luck has he that deals with none!

Next of myself I tell, poor me,
       How thrashed like clothes at wash was I
Stark naked, I must needs agree;
       Who made me eat so sour a pie
       But Katherine of Vaucelles? thereby,
No took third part of that fun;
       Such wedding-gloves are ill to buy;
Good luck has he that deals with none!

But for that young man fair and free
       To pass those young maids lightly by,
Nay, would you burn him quick, not he;
       Like broom-horsed witches though he fry,
       They are sweet as civet in his eye;
But trust them, and you're fooled anon;
       For white or brown, and low or high,
Good luck has he that deals with none!




And Paris be it or Helen dying,
       Who dies soever, dies with pain.
He that lacks breath and wind for sighing,
       His gall bursts on his heart; and then
       He sweats, God knows what sweat!--again,
No man may ease him of his grief;
       Child, brother, sister, none were fain
To bail him thence for his relief.

Death makes him shudder, swoon, wax pale,
       Nose bend, veins stretch, and breath surrender,
Neck swell, flesh soften, joints that fail
       Crack their strained nerves and arteries slender.
       O woman's body found so tender,
Smooth, sweet, so precious in men's eyes,
       Must thou too bear such count to render?
Yes; or pass quick into the skies.



What more? Where is the third Calixt,
       Last of that name now dead and gone,
Who held four years the Papalist?
       Alphonso king of Aragon,
       The gracious lord, duke of Bourbon,
And Arthur, duke of old Britaine?
       And Charles the Seventh, that worthy one?
Even with the good knight Charlemain.

The Scot too, king of mount and mist,
       With half his face vermilion,
Men tell us, like an amethyst
       From brow to chin that blazed and shone;
       The Cypriote king of old renown,
Alas! and that good king of Spain,
       Whose name I cannot think upon?
Even with the good knight Charlemain.

No more to say of them I list;
       'Tis all but vain, all dead and done:
For death may no man born resist,
       Nor make appeal when death comes on.
       I make yet one more question;
Where's Lancelot, king of far Bohain?
       Where's he whose grandson called him son?
Even with the good knight Charlemain.

Where is Guesclin, the good Breton?
       The lord of the eastern mountain-chain,
And the good late duke of Alenon?
       Even with the good knight Charlemain.



Albeit the Venice girls get praise
  For their sweet speech and tender air,
And though the old women have wise ways
  Of chaffering for amorous ware,
  Yet at my peril dare I swear,
Search Rome, where God's grace mainly tarries,
  Florence and Savoy, everywhere,
There's no good girl's lip out of Paris.

The Naples women, as folk prattle,
  Are sweetly spoken and subtle enough:
German girls are good at tattle,
  And Prussians make their boast thereof;
  Take Egypt for the next remove,
Or that waste land the Tartar harries,
  Spain or Greece, for the matter of love,
There's no good girl's lip out of Paris.

Breton and Swiss know nought of the matter,
  Gascony girls or girls of Toulouse;
Two fishwives here with a half-hour's chatter
  Would shut them up by threes and twos;
  Calais, Lorraine, and all their crews,
(Names enow the mad song marries)
  England and Picardy, search them and choose,
There's no good girl's lip out of Paris.

Prince, give praise to our French ladies
  For the sweet sound their speaking carries;
'Twixt Rome and Cadiz many a maid is,
  But no good girl's lip out of Paris.




At daybreak, when the falcon claps his wings,
  No whit for grief, but noble heart and high,
With loud glad noise he stirs himself and springs,
  And takes his meat and toward his lure draws nigh;
  Such good I wish you! Yea, and heartily
I am fired with hope of true love's meed to get;
  Know that Love writes it in his book; for why,
This is the end for which we twain are met.

Mine own heart's lady with no gainsayings
  You shall be always wholly till I die;
And in my right against all bitter things
  Sweet laurel with fresh rose its force shall try;
  Seeing reason wills not that I cast love by
(Nor here with reason shall I chide or fret)
  Nor cease to serve, but serve more constantly;
This is the end for which we twain are met.

And, which is more, when grief about me clings
  Through Fortune's fit or fume of jealousy,
Your sweet kind eye beats down her threatenings
  As wind doth smoke; such power sits in your eye.
  Thus in your field my seed of harvestry
Thrives, for the fruit is like me that I set;
  God bids me tend it with good husbandry;
This is the end for which we twain are met.

Princess, give ear to this my summary;
  That heart of mine your heart's love should forget
Shall never be: like trust in you put I:
  This is the end for which we twain are met.






May he fall in with beasts that scatter fire,
       Like Jason, when he sought the fleece of gold,
Or change from man to beast three years entire,
       As King Nebuchadnezzar did of old;
Or else have times as shameful and as bad
As Trojan folk for ravished Helen had;
Or gulfed with Proserpine and Tantalus
Let hell's deep fen devour him dolorous,
       With worse to bear than Job's worst sufferance,
Bound in his prison-maze with Ddalus,
       Who could wish evil to the state of France!

May he four months, like bitterns in the mire,
       Howl with head downmost in the lake-springs cold,
Or to bear harness like strong bulls for hire
       To the Great Turk for money down be sold;
Or thirty years like Magdalen live sad,
With neither wool nor web of linen clad;
Drown like Narciss', or swing down pendulous
Like Absalom with locks luxurious,
       Or liker Judas fallen to reprobance;
Or find such death as Simon sorcerous,
       Who could wish evil to the state of France!

May the old times come of fierce Octavian's ire,
       And in his belly molten coin be told;
May he like Victor in the mill expire,
       Crushed between moving millstones on him rolled,
Or in deep sea drenched breathless, more adrad
Than in the whale's bulk Jonas, when God bade:
From Phoebus' light, from Juno's treasure-house
Driven, and from joys of Venus amorous,
       And cursed of God most high to the utterance,
As was the Syrian king Antiochus,
       Who could wish evil to the state of France!

Prince, may the bright-winged brood of olus
To sea-king Glaucus' wild wood cavernous
       Bear him bereft of peace and hope's least glance,
For worthless is he to get good of us,
       Who could wish evil to the state of France.



Who is this I hear?--Lo, this is I, thine heart,
  That holds on merely now by a slender string.
Strength fails me, shape and sense are rent apart,
  The blood in me is turned to a bitter thing,
  Seeing thee skulk here like a dog shivering.--
Yea, and for what?--For that thy sense found sweet.--
What irks it thee?--I feel the sting of it.--
  Leave me at peace.--Why?--Nay now, leave me at peace;
I will repent when I grow ripe in wit.--
  I say no more.--I care not though thou cease.--

What art thou, trow?--A man worth praise, perfay.--
  This is thy thirtieth year of wayfaring.--
'Tis a mule's age.--Art thou a boy still?--Nay.--
  Is it hot lust that spurs thee with its sting,
  Grasping thy throat? Know'st thou not anything?--
Yea, black and white, when milk is specked with flies,
I can make out.--No more?--Nay, in no wise.
  Shall I begin again the count of these?--
Thou art undone.--I will make shift to rise.--
  I say no more.--I care not though thou cease.--

I have the sorrow of it, and thou the smart.
  Wert thou a poor mad fool or weak of wit,
Then might'st thou plead this pretext with thine heart;
  But if thou know not good from evil a whit,
  Either thy head is hard as stone to hit,
Or shame, not honour, gives thee most content.
What canst thou answer to this argument?--
  When I am dead I shall be well at ease.--
God! what good hope!--Thou art over eloquent.--
  I say no more.--I care not though thou cease.--

Whence is this ill?--From sorrow and not from sin.
  When Saturn packed my wallet up for me
I well believe he put these ills therein.--
  Fool, wilt thou make thy servant lord of thee?
Hear now the wise king's counsel; thus saith he:
All power upon the stars a wise man hath;
There is no planet that shall do him scathe.--
  Nay, as they made me I grow and I decrease.--
What say'st thou?--Truly this is all my faith.--
  I say no more.--I care not though thou cease.--

Wouldst thou live still?--God help me that I may!--
Then thou must--What? turn penitent and pray?--
Read always--What?--Grave words and good to say;
  Leave off the ways of fools, lest they displease.--
Good; I will do it.--Wilt thou remember?--Yea.--
Abide not till there come an evil day.
  I say no more.--I care not though thou cease.



Have pity, pity, friends, have pity on me,
  Thus much at least, may it please you, of your grace!
I lie not under hazel or hawthorn-tree
  Down in this dungeon ditch, mine exile's place
  By leave of God and fortune's foul disgrace.
Girls, lovers, glad young folk and newly wed,
Jumpers and jugglers, tumbling heel o'er head,
  Swift as a dart, and sharp as needle-ware,
Throats clear as bells that ring the kine to shed,
  Your poor old friend, what, will you leave him there?

Singers that sing at pleasure, lawlessly,
  Light, laughing, gay of word and deed, that race
And run like folk light-witted as ye be
  And have in hand nor current coin nor base,
  Ye wait too long, for now he's dying apace.
Rhymers of lays and roundels sung and read,
Ye'll brew him broth too late when he lies dead.
  Nor wind nor lightning, sunbeam nor fresh air,
May pierce the thick wall's bound where lies his bed;
  Your poor old friend, what, will you leave him there?

O noble folk from tithes and taxes free,
  Come and behold him in this piteous case,
Ye that nor king nor emperor holds in fee,
  But only God in heaven; behold his face
  Who needs must fast, Sundays and holidays,
Which makes his teeth like rakes; and when he hath fed
With never a cake for banquet but dry bread,
  Must drench his bowels with much cold watery fare,
With board nor stool, but low on earth instead;
  Your poor old friend, what, will you leave him there?

Princes afore-named, old and young foresaid,
Get me the king's seal and my pardon sped,
  And hoist me in some basket up with care:
So swine will help each other ill bested,
For where one squeaks they run in heaps ahead.
  Your poor old friend, what, will you leave him there?



Men, brother men, that after us yet live,
  Let not your hearts too hard against us be;
For if some pity of us poor men ye give,
  The sooner God shall take of you pity.
  Here are we five or six strung up, you see,
And here the flesh that all too well we fed
Bit by bit eaten and rotten, rent and shred,
  And we the bones grow dust and ash withal;
Let no man laugh at us discomforted,
  But pray to God that he forgive us all.

If we call on you, brothers, to forgive,
  Ye should not hold our prayer in scorn, though we
Were slain by law; ye know that all alive
  Have not wit alway to walk righteously;
  Make therefore intercession heartily
With him that of a virgin's womb was bred,
That his grace be not as a dry well-head
  For us, nor let hell's thunder on us fall;
We are dead, let no man harry or vex us dead,
  But pray to God that he forgive us all.

The rain has washed and laundered us all five,
  And the sun dried and blackened; yea, perdie,
Ravens and pies with beaks that rend and rive
  Have dug our eyes out, and plucked off for fee
  Our beards and eyebrows; never are we free,
Not once, to rest; but here and there still sped,
Drive at its wild will by the wind's change led,
  More pecked of birds than fruits on garden-wall;
Men, for God's love, let no gibe here be said,
  But pray to God that he forgive us all.

Prince Jesus, that of all art lord and head,
Keep us, that hell be not our bitter bed;
  We have nought to do in such a master's hall.
Be not ye therefore of our fellowhead,
  But pray to God that he forgive us all.



Take heed of this small child of earth;
       He is great: he hath in him God most high.
Children before their fleshly birth
       Are lights alive in the blue sky.

In our light bitter world of wrong
       They come; God gives us them awhile.
His speech is in their stammering tongue,
       And his forgiveness in their smile.

Their sweet light rests upon our eyes.
       Alas! their right to joy is plain.
If they are hungry, Paradise
       Weeps, and, if cold, Heaven thrills with pain.

The want that saps their sinless flower
       Speaks judgment on sin's ministers.
Man holds an angel in his power.
       Ah! deep in Heaven what thunder stirs,

When God seeks out these tender things
       Whom in the shadow where we sleep
He sends us clothed about with wings,
       And finds them ragged babes that weep!







Some nine years gone, as we dwelt together
In the sweet hushed heat of the south French weather
    Ere autumn fell on the vine-tressed hills
Or the season had shed one rose-red feather,

Friend, whose fame is a flame that fills
All eyes it lightens and hearts it thrills
    With joy to be born of the blood which bred
From a land that the grey sea girds and chills

The heart and spirit and hand and head
Whose might is as light on a dark day shed,
    On a day now dark as a land's decline
Where all the peers of your praise are dead,

In a land and season of corn and vine
I pledged you a health from a beaker of mine
    But halfway filled to the lip's edge yet
With hope for honey and song for wine.

Nine years have risen and eight years set
Since there by the wellspring our hands on it met:
    And the pledge of my songs that were then to be,
I could wonder not, friend, though a friend should forget.

For life's helm rocks to the windward and lee,
And time is as wind, and as waves are we;
    And song is as foam that the sea-winds fret,
Though the thought at its heart should be deep as the sea.




     Ere frost-flower and snow-blossom faded and fell, and the splendour
           of winter had passed out of sight,
     The ways of the woodlands were fairer and stranger than dreams that
           fulfil us in sleep with delight;
     The breath of the mouths of the winds had hardened on tree-tops and
           branches that glittered and swayed
     Such wonders and glories of blossomlike snow or of frost that
           outlightens all flowers till it fade
     That the sea was not lovelier than here was the land, nor the night
           than the day, nor the day than the night,
     Nor the winter sublimer with storm than the spring: such mirth had
           the madness and might in thee made,
     March, master of winds, bright minstrel and marshal of storms that
           enkindle the season they smite.




     And now that the rage of thy rapture is satiate with revel and
           ravin and spoil of the snow,
     And the branches it brightened are broken, and shattered the
           tree-tops that only thy wrath could lay low,
     How should not thy lovers rejoice in thee, leader and lord of the
           year that exults to be born
     So strong in thy strength and so glad of thy gladness whose
           laughter puts winter and sorrow to scorn?
     Thou hast shaken the snows from thy wings, and the frost on thy
           forehead is molten: thy lips are aglow
     As a lover's that kindle with kissing, and earth, with her raiment
           and tresses yet wasted and torn,
     Takes breath as she smiles in the grasp of thy passion to feel
           through her spirit the sense of thee flow.



     Fain, fain would we see but again for an hour what the wind and the
           sun have dispelled and consumed,
     Those full deep swan-soft feathers of snow with whose luminous
           burden the branches implumed
     Hung heavily, curved as a half-bent bow, and fledged not as birds
           are, but petalled as flowers,
     Each tree-top and branchlet a pinnacle jewelled and carved, or a
           fountain that shines as it showers,
     But fixed as a fountain is fixed not, and wrought not to last till
           by time or by tempest entombed,
     As a pinnacle carven and gilded of men: for the date of its doom is
           no more than an hour's,
     One hour of the sun's when the warm wind wakes him to wither the
           snow-flowers that froze as they bloomed.


     As the sunshine quenches the snowshine; as April subdues thee, and
           yields up his kingdom to May;
     So time overcomes the regret that is born of delight as it passes
           in passion away,
     And leaves but a dream for desire to rejoice in or mourn for with
           tears or thanksgivings; but thou,
     Bright god that art gone from us, maddest and gladdest of months,
           to what goal hast thou gone from us now?
     For somewhere surely the storm of thy laughter that lightens, the
           beat of thy wings that play,
     Must flame as a fire through the world, and the heavens that we
           know not rejoice in thee: surely thy brow
     Hath lost not its radiance of empire, thy spirit the joy that
           impelled it on quest as for prey.



     Are thy feet on the ways of the limitless waters, thy wings on the
           winds of the waste north sea?
     Are the fires of the false north dawn over heavens where summer is
           stormful and strong like thee
     Now bright in the sight of thine eyes? are the bastions of icebergs
           assailed by the blast of thy breath?
     Is it March with the wild north world when April is waning? the
           word that the changed year saith,
     Is it echoed to northward with rapture of passion reiterate from
           spirits triumphant as we
     Whose hearts were uplift at the blast of thy clarions as men's
           rearisen from a sleep that was death
     And kindled to life that was one with the world's and with thine?
           hast thou set not the whole world free?



     For the breath of thy lips is freedom, and freedom's the sense of
           thy spirit, the sound of thy song,
     Glad god of the north-east wind, whose heart is as high as the
           hands of thy kingdom are strong,
     Thy kingdom whose empire is terror and joy, twin-featured and
           fruitful of births divine,
     Days lit with the flame of the lamps of the flowers, and nights
           that are drunken with dew for wine,
     And sleep not for joy of the stars that deepen and quicken, a
           denser and fierier throng,
     And the world that thy breath bade whiten and tremble rejoices at
           heart as they strengthen and shine,
     And earth gives thanks for the glory bequeathed her, and knows of
           thy reign that it wrought not wrong.



     Thy spirit is quenched not, albeit we behold not thy face in the
           crown of the steep sky's arch,
     And the bold first buds of the whin wax golden, and witness arise
           of the thorn and the larch:
     Wild April, enkindled to laughter and storm by the kiss of the
           wildest of winds that blow,
     Calls loud on his brother for witness; his hands that were laden
           with blossom are sprinkled with snow,
     And his lips breathe winter, and laugh, and relent; and the live
           woods feel not the frost's flame parch;
     For the flame of the spring that consumes not but quickens is felt
           at the heart of the forest aglow,
     And the sparks that enkindled and fed it were strewn from the hands
           of the gods of the winds of March.



     Eight hundred years and twenty-one
       Have shone and sunken since the land
       Whose name is freedom bore such brand
     As marks a captive, and the sun
       Beheld her fettered hand.



     But ere dark time had shed as rain
       Or sown on sterile earth as seed
       That bears no fruit save tare and weed
     An age and half an age again,
       She rose on Runnymede.


     Out of the shadow, starlike still,
       She rose up radiant in her right,
       And spake, and put to fear and flight
     The lawless rule of awless will
       That pleads no right save might.



     Nor since hath England ever borne
       The burden laid on subject lands,
       The rule that curbs and binds all hands
     Save one, and marks for servile scorn
       The heads it bows and brands.


     A commonweal arrayed and crowned
       With gold and purple, girt with steel
       At need, that foes must fear or feel,
     We find her, as our fathers found,
       Earth's lordliest commonweal.


     And now that fifty years are flown
       Since in a maiden's hand the sign
       Of empire that no seas confine
     First as a star to seaward shone,
       We see their record shine.


     A troubled record, foul and fair,
       A simple record and serene,
       Inscribes for praise a blameless queen,
     For praise and blame an age of care
       And change and ends unseen.



     Hope, wide of eye and wild of wing,
       Rose with the sundawn of a reign
       Whose grace should make the rough ways plain,
     And fill the worn old world with spring,
       And heal its heart of pain.



     Peace was to be on earth; men's hope
       Was holier than their fathers had,
       Their wisdom not more wise than glad:
     They saw the gates of promise ope,
       And heard what love's lips bade.



     Love armed with knowledge, winged and wise,
       Should hush the wind of war, and see,
       They said, the sun of days to be
     Bring round beneath serener skies
       A stormless jubilee.



     Time, in the darkness unbeholden
       That hides him from the sight of fear
       And lets but dreaming hope draw near,
     Smiled and was sad to hear such golden
       Strains hail the all-golden year.



     Strange clouds have risen between, and wild
       Red stars of storm that lit the abyss
       Wherein fierce fraud and violence kiss
     And mock such promise as beguiled
       The fiftieth year from this.



     War upon war, change after change,
       Hath shaken thrones and towers to dust,
       And hopes austere and faiths august
     Have watched in patience stern and strange
       Men's works unjust and just.



     As from some Alpine watch-tower's portal
       Night, living yet, looks forth for dawn,
       So from time's mistier mountain lawn
     The spirit of man, in trust immortal,
       Yearns toward a hope withdrawn.


     The morning comes not, yet the night
       Wanes, and men's eyes win strength to see
       Where twilight is, where light shall be
     When conquered wrong and conquering right
       Acclaim a world set free.



     Calm as our mother-land, the mother
       Of faith and freedom, pure and wise,
       Keeps watch beneath unchangeful skies,
     When hath she watched the woes of other
       Strange lands with alien eyes?

     Calm as she stands alone, what nation
       Hath lacked an alms from English hands?
       What exiles from what stricken lands
     Have lacked the shelter of the station
       Where higher than all she stands?


     Though time discrown and change dismantle
       The pride of thrones and towers that frown,
       How should they bring her glories down--
     The sea cast round her like a mantle,
       The sea-cloud like a crown?



     The sea, divine as heaven and deathless,
       Is hers, and none but only she
       Hath learnt the sea's word, none but we
     Her children hear in heart the breathless
       Bright watchword of the sea.



     Heard not of others, or misheard
       Of many a land for many a year,
       The watchword Freedom fails not here
     Of hearts that witness if the word
       Find faith in England's ear.



     She, first to love the light, and daughter
       Incarnate of the northern dawn,
       She, round whose feet the wild waves fawn
     When all their wrath of warring water
       Sounds like a babe's breath drawn,



     How should not she best know, love best,
       And best of all souls understand
       The very soul of freedom, scanned
     Far off, sought out in darkling quest
       By men at heart unmanned?



     They climb and fall, ensnared, enshrouded,
       By mists of words and toils they set
       To take themselves, till fierce regret
     Grows mad with shame, and all their clouded
       Red skies hang sunless yet.



     But us the sun, not wholly risen
       Nor equal now for all, illumes
       With more of light than cloud that looms;
     Of light that leads forth souls from prison
       And breaks the seals of tombs.


     Did not her breasts who reared us rear
       Him who took heaven in hand, and weighed
       Bright world with world in balance laid?
     What Newton's might could make not clear
       Hath Darwin's might not made?


     The forces of the dark dissolve,
       The doorways of the dark are broken:
       The word that casts out night is spoken,
     And whence the springs of things evolve
       Light born of night bears token.



     She, loving light for light's sake only,
       And truth for only truth's, and song
       For song's sake and the sea's, how long
     Hath she not borne the world her lonely
       Witness of right and wrong?


     From light to light her eyes imperial
       Turn, and require the further light,
       More perfect than the sun's in sight,
     Till star and sun seem all funereal
       Lamps of the vaulted night.



     She gazes till the strenuous soul
       Within the rapture of her eyes
       Creates or bids awake, arise,
     The light she looks for, pure and whole
       And worshipped of the wise.


     Such sons are hers, such radiant hands
       Have borne abroad her lamp of old,
       Such mouths of honey-dropping gold
     Have sent across all seas and lands
       Her fame as music rolled.



     As music made of rolling thunder
       That hurls through heaven its heart sublime,
       Its heart of joy, in charging chime,
     So ring the songs that round and under
       Her temple surge and climb.


     A temple not by men's hands builded,
       But moulded of the spirit, and wrought
       Of passion and imperious thought;
     With light beyond all sunlight gilded,
       Whereby the sun seems nought.


     Thy shrine, our mother, seen for fairer
       Than even thy natural face, made fair
       With kisses of thine April air
     Even now, when spring thy banner-bearer
       Took up thy sign to bear;



     Thine annual sign from heaven's own arch
       Given of the sun's hand into thine,
       To rear and cheer each wildwood shrine
     But now laid waste by wild-winged March,
       March, mad with wind like wine.


     From all thy brightening downs whereon
       The windy seaward whin-flower shows
       Blossom whose pride strikes pale the rose
     Forth is the golden watchword gone
       Whereat the world's face glows.



     Thy quickening woods rejoice and ring
       Till earth seems glorious as the sea:
       With yearning love too glad for glee
     The world's heart quivers toward the spring
       As all our hearts toward thee.


     Thee, mother, thee, our queen, who givest
       Assurance to the heavens most high
       And earth whereon her bondsmen sigh
     That by the sea's grace while thou livest
       Hope shall not wholly die.


     That while thy free folk hold the van
       Of all men, and the sea-spray shed
       As dew more heavenly on thy head
     Keeps bright thy face in sight of man,
       Man's pride shall drop not dead.



     A pride more pure than humblest prayer,
       More wise than wisdom born of doubt,
       Girds for thy sake men's hearts about
     With trust and triumph that despair
       And fear may cast not out.


     Despair may wring men's hearts, and fear
       Bow down their heads to kiss the dust,
       Where patriot memories rot and rust,
     And change makes faint a nation's cheer,
       And faith yields up her trust.


     Not here this year have true men known,
       Not here this year may true men know,
       That brand of shame-compelling woe
     Which bids but brave men shrink or groan
       And lays but honour low.


     The strong spring wind blows notes of praise,
       And hallowing pride of heart, and cheer
       Unchanging, toward all true men here
     Who hold the trust of ancient days
       High as of old this year.



     The days that made thee great are dead;
       The days that now must keep thee great
       Lie not in keeping of thy fate;
     In thine they lie, whose heart and head
       Sustain thy charge of state.



     No state so proud, no pride so just,
       The sun, through clouds at sunrise curled
       Or clouds across the sunset whirled,
     Hath sight of, nor has man such trust
       As thine in all the world.


     Each hour that sees the sunset's crest
       Make bright thy shores ere day decline
       Sees dawn the sun on shores of thine,
     Sees west as east and east as west
       On thee their sovereign shine.



     The sea's own heart must needs wax proud
       To have borne the world a child like thee.
       What birth of earth might ever be
     Thy sister? Time, a wandering cloud,
       Is sunshine on thy sea.



     Change mars not her; and thee, our mother,
       What change that irks or moves thee mars?
       What shock that shakes? what chance that jars?
     Time gave thee, as he gave none other,
       A station like a star's.



     The storm that shrieks, the wind that wages
       War with the wings of hopes that climb
       Too high toward heaven in doubt sublime,
     Assail not thee, approved of ages
       The towering crown of time.



     Toward thee this year thy children turning
       With souls uplift of changeless cheer
       Salute with love that casts out fear,
     With hearts for beacons round thee burning,
       The token of this year.



     With just and sacred jubilation
       Let earth sound answer to the sea
       For witness, blown on winds as free,
     How England, how her crowning nation,
       Acclaims this jubilee.



     England, mother born of seamen, daughter fostered of the sea,
     Mother more beloved than all who bear not all their children free,
       Reared and nursed and crowned and cherished by the sea-wind and
           the sun,
       Sweetest land and strongest, face most fair and mightiest heart
           in one,
     Stands not higher than when the centuries known of earth were less
           by three,
       When the strength that struck the whole world pale fell back from
           hers undone.


     At her feet were the heads of her foes bowed down, and the
           strengths of the storm of them stayed,
     And the hearts that were touched not with mercy with terror were
           touched and amazed and affrayed:
       Yea, hearts that had never been molten with pity were molten with
           fear as with flame,
     And the priests of the Godhead whose temple is hell, and his heart
           is of iron and fire,
     And the swordsmen that served and the seamen that sped them, whom
           peril could tame not or tire,
       Were as foam on the winds of the waters of England which tempest
           can tire not or tame.
     They were girded about with thunder, and lightning came forth of
           the rage of their strength,
     And the measure that measures the wings of the storm was the
           breadth of their force and the length:
     And the name of their might was Invincible, covered and clothed
           with the terror of God;
     With his wrath were they winged, with his love were they fired,
           with the speed of his winds were they shod;
     With his soul were they filled, in his trust were they comforted:
           grace was upon them as night,
     And faith as the blackness of darkness: the fume of their balefires
           was fair in his sight,
     The reek of them sweet as a savour of myrrh in his nostrils: the
           world that he made,
     Theirs was it by gift of his servants: the wind, if they spake in
           his name, was afraid,
     And the sun was a shadow before it, the stars were astonished with
           fear of it: fire
     Went up to them, fed with men living, and lit of men's hands for a
           shrine or a pyre;
     And the east and the west wind scattered their ashes abroad, that
           his name should be blest
     Of the tribes of the chosen whose blessings are curses from
           uttermost east unto west.


     Hell for Spain, and heaven for England,--God to God, and man to
           man,--
     Met confronted, light with darkness, life with death: since time
           began,
       Never earth nor sea beheld so great a stake before them set,
       Save when Athens hurled back Asia from the lists wherein they
           met;
     Never since the sands of ages through the glass of history ran
       Saw the sun in heaven a lordlier day than this that lights us
           yet.

     For the light that abides upon England, the glory that rests on her
           godlike name,
     The pride that is love and the love that is faith, a perfume
           dissolved in flame,
       Took fire from the dawn of the fierce July when fleets were
           scattered as foam
     And squadrons as flakes of spray; when galleon and galliass that
           shadowed the sea
     Were swept from her waves like shadows that pass with the clouds
           they fell from, and she
       Laughed loud to the wind as it gave to her keeping the glories of
           Spain and Rome.


     Three hundred summers have fallen as leaves by the storms in their
           season thinned,
     Since northward the war-ships of Spain came sheer up the way of the
           south-west wind:
     Where the citadel cliffs of England are flanked with bastions of
           serpentine,
     Far off to the windward loomed their hulls, an hundred and
           twenty-nine,
     All filled full of the war, full-fraught with battle and charged
           with bale;
     Then store-ships weighted with cannon; and all were an hundred and
           fifty sail.
     The measureless menace of darkness anhungered with hope to prevail
           upon light,
     The shadow of death made substance, the present and visible spirit
           of night,
     Came, shaped as a waxing or waning moon that rose with the fall of
           day,
     To the channel where couches the Lion in guard of the gate of the
           lustrous bay.
     Fair England, sweet as the sea that shields her, and pure as the
           sea from stain,
     Smiled, hearing hardly for scorn that stirred her the menace of
           saintly Spain.

     "They that ride over ocean wide with hempen bridle and horse of
           tree,"
     How shall they in the darkening day of wrath and anguish and fear
           go free?
     How shall these that have curbed the seas not feel his bridle who
           made the sea?

     God shall bow them and break them now: for what is man in the Lord
           God's sight?
     Fear shall shake them, and shame shall break, and all the noon of
           their pride be night:
     These that sinned shall the ravening wind of doom bring under, and
           judgment smite.

     England broke from her neck the yoke, and rent the fetter, and
           mocked the rod:
     Shrines of old that she decked with gold she turned to dust, to the
           dust she trod:
     What is she, that the wind and sea should fight beside her, and war
           with God?

     Lo, the cloud of his ships that crowd her channel's inlet with
           storm sublime,
     Darker far than the tempests are that sweep the skies of her
           northmost clime;
     Huge and dense as the walls that fence the secret darkness of
           unknown time.

     Mast on mast as a tower goes past, and sail by sail as a cloud's
           wing spread;
     Fleet by fleet, as the throngs whose feet keep time with death in
           his dance of dread;
     Galleons dark as the helmsman's bark of old that ferried to hell
           the dead.

     Squadrons proud as their lords, and loud with tramp of soldiers
           and chant of priests;
     Slaves there told by the thousandfold, made fast in bondage as
           herded beasts;
     Lords and slaves that the sweet free waves shall feed on, satiate
           with funeral feasts.

     Nay, not so shall it be, they know; their priests have said it; can
           priesthood lie?
     God shall keep them, their God shall sleep not: peril and evil
           shall pass them by:
     Nay, for these are his children; seas and winds shall bid not his
           children die.


     So they boast them, the monstrous host whose menace mocks at the
           dawn: and here
     They that wait at the wild sea's gate, and watch the darkness of
           doom draw near,
     How shall they in their evil day sustain the strength of their
           hearts for fear?

     Full July in the fervent sky sets forth her twentieth of changing
           morns:
     Winds fall mild that of late waxed wild: no presage whispers or
           wails or warns:
     Far to west on the bland sea's breast a sailing crescent uprears
           her horns.

     Seven wide miles the serene sea smiles between them stretching from
           rim to rim:
     Soft they shine, but a darker sign should bid not hope or belief
           wax dim:
     God's are these men, and not the sea's: their trust is set not on
           her but him.

     God's? but who is the God whereto the prayers and incense of these
           men rise?
     What is he, that the wind and sea should fear him, quelled by his
           sunbright eyes?
     What, that men should return again, and hail him Lord of the
           servile skies?

     Hell's own flame at his heavenly name leaps higher and laughs, and
           its gulfs rejoice:
     Plague and death from his baneful breath take life and lighten, and
           praise his choice:
     Chosen are they to devour for prey the tribes that hear not and
           fear his voice.

     Ay, but we that the wind and sea gird round with shelter of storms
           and waves
     Know not him that ye worship, grim as dreams that quicken from dead
           men's graves:
     God is one with the sea, the sun, the land that nursed us, the love
           that saves.

     Love whose heart is in ours, and part of all things noble and all
           things fair;
     Sweet and free as the circling sea, sublime and kind as the
           fostering air;
     Pure of shame as is England's name, whose crowns to come are as
           crowns that were.

     But the Lord of darkness, the God whose love is a flaming fire,
     The master whose mercy fulfils wide hell till its torturers tire,
     He shall surely have heed of his servants who serve him for love,
           not hire.

     They shall fetter the wing of the wind whose pinions are plumed
           with foam:
     For now shall thy horn be exalted, and now shall thy bolt strike
           home;
     Yea, now shall thy kingdom come, Lord God of the priests of Rome.

     They shall cast thy curb on the waters, and bridle the waves of the
           sea:
     They shall say to her, Peace, be still: and stillness and peace
           shall be:
     And the winds and the storms shall hear them, and tremble, and
           worship thee.

     Thy breath shall darken the morning, and wither the mounting sun;
     And the daysprings, frozen and fettered, shall know thee, and cease
           to run;
     The heart of the world shall feel thee, and die, and thy will be
           done.

     The spirit of man that would sound thee, and search out causes of
           things,
     Shall shrink and subside and praise thee: and wisdom, with
           plume-plucked wings,
     Shall cower at thy feet and confess thee, that none may fathom thy
           springs.

     The fountains of song that await but the wind of an April to be
     To burst the bonds of the winter, and speak with the sound of a
           sea,
     The blast of thy mouth shall quench them: and song shall be only of
           thee.

     The days that are dead shall quicken, the seasons that were shall
           return;
     And the streets and the pastures of England, the woods that burgeon
           and yearn,
     Shall be whitened with ashes of women and children and men that
           burn.

     For the mother shall burn with the babe sprung forth of her womb in
           fire,
     And bride with bridegroom, and brother with sister, and son with
           sire;
     And the noise of the flames shall be sweet in thine ears as the
           sound of a lyre.

     Yea, so shall thy kingdom be stablished, and so shall the signs of
           it be:
     And the world shall know, and the wind shall speak, and the sun
           shall see,
     That these are the works of thy servants, whose works bear witness
           to thee.


     But the dusk of the day falls fruitless, whose light should have
           lit them on:
     Sails flash through the gloom to shoreward, eclipsed as the sun
           that shone:
     And the west wind wakes with dawn, and the hope that was here is
           gone.

     Around they wheel and around, two knots to the Spaniard's one,
     The wind-swift warriors of England, who shoot as with shafts of the
           sun,
     With fourfold shots for the Spaniard's, that spare not till day be
           done.

     And the wind with the sundown sharpens, and hurtles the ships to
           the lee,
     And Spaniard on Spaniard smites, and shatters, and yields; and we,
     Ere battle begin, stand lords of the battle, acclaimed of the sea.

     And the day sweeps round to the nightward; and heavy and hard the
           waves
     Roll in on the herd of the hurtling galleons; and masters and
           slaves
     Reel blind in the grasp of the dark strong wind that shall dig
           their graves.

     For the sepulchres hollowed and shaped of the wind in the swerve of
           the seas,
     The graves that gape for their pasture, and laugh, thrilled through
           by the breeze,
     The sweet soft merciless waters, await and are fain of these.

     As the hiss of a Python heaving in menace of doom to be
     They hear through the clear night round them, whose hours are as
           clouds that flee,
     The whisper of tempest sleeping, the heave and the hiss of the sea.

     But faith is theirs, and with faith are they girded and helmed and
           shod:
     Invincible are they, almighty, elect for a sword and a rod;
     Invincible even as their God is omnipotent, infinite, God.

     In him is their strength, who have sworn that his glory shall wax
           not dim:
     In his name are their war-ships hallowed as mightiest of all that
           swim:
     The men that shall cope with these, and conquer, shall cast out
           him.

     In him is the trust of their hearts; the desire of their eyes is
           he;
     The light of their ways, made lightning for men that would fain be
           free:
     Earth's hosts are with them, and with them is heaven: but with us
           is the sea.




         And a day and a night pass over;
           And the heart of their chief swells high;
         For England, the warrior, the rover,
           Whose banners on all winds fly,
     Soul-stricken, he saith, by the shadow of death, holds off him, and
           draws not nigh.

         And the wind and the dawn together
           Make in from the gleaming east:
         And fain of the wild glad weather
           As famine is fain of feast,
     And fain of the fight, forth sweeps in its might the host of the
           Lord's high priest.

         And lightly before the breeze
           The ships of his foes take wing:
         Are they scattered, the lords of the seas?
           Are they broken, the foes of the king?
     And ever now higher as a mounting fire the hopes of the Spaniard
           spring.

         And a windless night comes down:
           And a breezeless morning, bright
         With promise of praise to crown
           The close of the crowning fight,
     Leaps up as the foe's heart leaps, and glows with lustrous rapture
           of light.

         And stinted of gear for battle
           The ships of the sea's folk lie,
         Unwarlike, herded as cattle,
           Six miles from the foeman's eye
     That fastens as flame on the sight of them tame and offenceless,
           and ranged as to die.

         Surely the souls in them quail,
           They are stricken and withered at heart,
         When in on them, sail by sail,
           Fierce marvels of monstrous art,
     Tower darkening on tower till the sea-winds cower crowds down as to
           hurl them apart.

         And the windless weather is kindly,
           And comforts the host in these;
         And their hearts are uplift in them blindly,
           And blindly they boast at ease
     That the next day's fight shall exalt them, and smite with
           destruction the lords of the seas.



         And lightly the proud hearts prattle,
           And lightly the dawn draws nigh,
         The dawn of the doom of the battle
           When these shall falter and fly;
     No day more great in the roll of fate filled ever with fire the
           sky.

         To fightward they go as to feastward,
           And the tempest of ships that drive
         Sets eastward ever and eastward,
           Till closer they strain and strive;
     And the shots that rain on the hulls of Spain are as thunders afire
           and alive.

         And about them the blithe sea smiles
           And flashes to windward and lee
         Round capes and headlands and isles
           That heed not if war there be;
     Round Sark, round Wight, green jewels of light in the ring of the
           golden sea.

         But the men that within them abide
           Are stout of spirit and stark
         As rocks that repel the tide,
           As day that repels the dark;
     And the light bequeathed from their swords unsheathed shines lineal
           on Wight and on Sark.

         And eastward the storm sets ever,
           The storm of the sails that strain
         And follow and close and sever
           And lose and return and gain;
     And English thunder divides in sunder the holds of the ships of
           Spain.

         Southward to Calais, appalled
           And astonished, the vast fleet veers;
         And the skies are shrouded and palled,
           But the moonless midnight hears
     And sees how swift on them drive and drift strange flames that the
           darkness fears.

         They fly through the night from shoreward,
           Heart-stricken till morning break,
         And ever to scourge them forward
           Drives down on them England's Drake,
     And hurls them in as they hurtle and spin and stagger, with storm
           to wake.


         And now is their time come on them. For eastward they drift and
           reel,
         With the shallows of Flanders ahead, with destruction and havoc
           at heel,
         With God for their comfort only, the God whom they serve; and
           here
         Their Lord, of his great loving-kindness, may revel and make
           good cheer;
       Though ever his lips wax thirstier with drinking, and hotter the
           lusts in him swell;
     For he feeds the thirst that consumes him with blood, and his
           winepress fumes with the reek of hell.


         Fierce noon beats hard on the battle; the galleons that loom to
           the lee
         Bow down, heel over, uplifting their shelterless hulls from the
           sea:
         From scuppers aspirt with blood, from guns dismounted and dumb,
         The signs of the doom they looked for, the loud mute witnesses
           come.
       They press with sunset to seaward for comfort: and shall not they
           find it there?
     O servants of God most high, shall his winds not pass you by, and
           his waves not spare?



     The wings of the south-west wind are widened; the breath of his
           fervent lips,
     More keen than a sword's edge, fiercer than fire, falls full on the
           plunging ships.
     The pilot is he of their northward flight, their stay and their
           steersman he;
     A helmsman clothed with the tempest, and girdled with strength to
           constrain the sea.
     And the host of them trembles and quails, caught fast in his hand
           as a bird in the toils;
     For the wrath and the joy that fulfil him are mightier than man's,
           whom he slays and spoils.
     And vainly, with heart divided in sunder, and labour of wavering
           will,
     The lord of their host takes counsel with hope if haply their star
           shine still,
     If haply some light be left them of chance to renew and redeem the
           fray;
     But the will of the black south-wester is lord of the councils of
           war to-day.
     One only spirit it quells not, a splendour undarkened of chance or
           time;
     Be the praise of his foes with Oquendo for ever, a name as a star
           sublime.
     But here what aid in a hero's heart, what help in his hand may be?
     For ever the dark wind whitens and blackens the hollows and heights
           of the sea,
     And galley by galley, divided and desolate, founders; and none
           takes heed,
     Nor foe nor friend, if they perish; forlorn, cast off in their
           uttermost need,
     They sink in the whelm of the waters, as pebbles by children from
           shoreward hurled,
     In the North Sea's waters that end not, nor know they a bourn but
           the bourn of the world.
     Past many a secure unavailable harbour, and many a loud stream's
           mouth,
     Past Humber and Tees and Tyne and Tweed, they fly, scourged on from
           the south,
     And torn by the scourge of the storm-wind that smites as a harper
           smites on a lyre,
     And consumed of the storm as the sacrifice loved of their God is
           consumed with fire,
     And devoured of the darkness as men that are slain in the fires of
           his love are devoured,
     And deflowered of their lives by the storms, as by priests is the
           spirit of life deflowered.
     For the wind, of its godlike mercy, relents not, and hounds them
           ahead to the north,
     With English hunters at heel, till now is the herd of them past the
           Forth,
     All huddled and hurtled seaward; and now need none wage war upon
           these,
     Nor huntsmen follow the quarry whose fall is the pastime sought of
           the seas.
     Day upon day upon day confounds them, with measureless mists that
           swell,
     With drift of rains everlasting and dense as the fumes of ascending
           hell.
     The visions of priest and of prophet beholding his enemies bruised
           of his rod
     Beheld but the likeness of this that is fallen on the faithful, the
           friends of God.
     Northward, and northward, and northward they stagger and shudder
           and swerve and flit,
     Dismantled of masts and of yards, with sails by the fangs of the
           storm-wind split.
     But north of the headland whose name is Wrath, by the wrath or the
           ruth of the sea,
     They are swept or sustained to the westward, and drive through the
           rollers aloof to the lee.
     Some strive yet northward for Iceland, and perish: but some through
           the storm-hewn straits
     That sunder the Shetlands and Orkneys are borne of the breath which
           is God's or fate's:
     And some, by the dawn of September, at last give thanks as for
           stars that smile,
     For the winds have swept them to shelter and sight of the cliffs of
           a Catholic isle.
     Though many the fierce rocks feed on, and many the merciless
           heretic slays,
     Yet some that have laboured to land with their treasure are
           trustful, and give God praise.
     And the kernes of murderous Ireland, athirst with a greed
           everlasting of blood,
     Unslakable ever with slaughter and spoil, rage down as a ravening
           flood,
     To slay and to flay of their shining apparel their brethren whom
           shipwreck spares;
     Such faith and such mercy, such love and such manhood, such hands
           and such hearts are theirs.
     Short shrift to her foes gives England, but shorter doth Ireland to
           friends; and worse
     Fare they that came with a blessing on treason than they that come
           with a curse.
     Hacked, harried, and mangled of axes and skenes, three thousand
           naked and dead
     Bear witness of Catholic Ireland, what sons of what sires at her
           breasts are bred.
     Winds are pitiful, waves are merciful, tempest and storm are kind:
     The waters that smite may spare, and the thunder is deaf, and the
           lightning is blind:
     Of these perchance at his need may a man, though they know it not,
           yet find grace;
     But grace, if another be hardened against him, he gets not at this
           man's face.
     For his ear that hears and his eye that sees the wreck and the wail
           of men,
     And his heart that relents not within him, but hungers, are like as
           the wolf's in his den.
     Worthy are these to worship their master, the murderous Lord of
           lies,
     Who hath given to the pontiff his servant the keys of the pit and
           the keys of the skies.
     Wild famine and red-shod rapine are cruel, and bitter with blood
           are their feasts;
     But fiercer than famine and redder than rapine the hands and the
           hearts of priests.
     God, God bade these to the battle; and here, on a land by his
           servants trod,
     They perish, a lordly blood-offering, subdued by the hands of the
           servants of God.
     These also were fed of his priests with faith, with the milk of his
           word and the wine;
     These too are fulfilled with the spirit of darkness that guided
           their quest divine.
     And here, cast up from the ravening sea on the mild land's merciful
           breast,
     This comfort they find of their fellows in worship; this guerdon is
           theirs of their quest.
     Death was captain, and doom was pilot, and darkness the chart of
           their way;
     Night and hell had in charge and in keeping the host of the foes of
           day.
     Invincible, vanquished, impregnable, shattered, a sign to her foes
           of fear,
     A sign to the world and the stars of laughter, the fleet of the
           Lord lies here.
     Nay, for none may declare the place of the ruin wherein she lies;
     Nay, for none hath beholden the grave whence never a ghost shall
           rise.
     The fleet of the foemen of England hath found not one but a
           thousand graves;
     And he that shall number and name them shall number by name and by
           tale the waves.



     Sixtus, Pope of the Church whose hope takes flight for heaven to
           dethrone the sun,
     Philip, king that wouldst turn our spring to winter, blasted,
           appalled, undone,
     Prince and priest, let a mourner's feast give thanks to God for
           your conquest won.

     England's heel is upon you: kneel, O priest, O prince, in the dust,
           and cry,
     "Lord, why thus? art thou wroth with us whose faith was great in
           thee, God most high?
     Whence is this, that the serpent's hiss derides us? Lord, can thy
           pledged word lie?

     "God of hell, are its flames that swell quenched now for ever,
           extinct and dead?
     Who shall fear thee? or who shall hear the word thy servants who
           feared thee said?
     Lord, art thou as the dead gods now, whose arm is shortened, whose
           rede is read?

     "Yet we thought it was not for nought thy word was given us, to
           guard and guide:
     Yet we deemed that they had not dreamed who put their trust in
           thee. Hast thou lied?
     God our Lord, was the sacred sword we drew not drawn on thy
           Church's side?

     "England hates thee as hell's own gates; and England triumphs, and
           Rome bows down:
     England mocks at thee; England's rocks cast off thy servants to
           drive and drown:
     England loathes thee; and fame betroths and plights with England
           her faith for crown.

     "Spain clings fast to thee; Spain, aghast with anguish, cries to
           thee; where art thou?
     Spain puts trust in thee; lo, the dust that soils and darkens her
           prostrate brow!
     Spain is true to thy service; who shall raise up Spain for thy
           service now?

     "Who shall praise thee, if none may raise thy servants up, nor
           affright thy foes?
     Winter wanes, and the woods and plains forget the likeness of
           storms and snows:
     So shall fear of thee fade even here: and what shall follow thee no
           man knows."

     Lords of night, who would breathe your blight on April's morning
           and August's noon,
     God your Lord, the condemned, the abhorred, sinks hellward, smitten
           with deathlike swoon:
     Death's own dart in his hateful heart now thrills, and night shall
           receive him soon.

     God the Devil, thy reign of revel is here for ever eclipsed and
           fled:
     God the Liar, everlasting fire lays hold at last on thee, hand and
           head:
     God the Accurst, the consuming thirst that burns thee never shall
           here be fed.


     England, queen of the waves whose green inviolate girdle enrings
           thee round,
     Mother fair as the morning, where is now the place of thy foemen
           found?
     Still the sea that salutes us free proclaims them stricken,
           acclaims thee crowned.

     Times may change, and the skies grow strange with signs of treason
           and fraud and fear:
     Foes in union of strange communion may rise against thee from far
           and near:
     Sloth and greed on thy strength may feed as cankers waxing from
           year to year.

     Yet, though treason and fierce unreason should league and lie and
           defame and smite,
     We that know thee, how far below thee the hatred burns of the sons
           of night,
     We that love thee, behold above thee the witness written of life in
           light.

     Life that shines from thee shows forth signs that none may read not
           but eyeless foes:
     Hate, born blind, in his abject mind grows hopeful now but as
           madness grows:
     Love, born wise, with exultant eyes adores thy glory, beholds and
           glows.

     Truth is in thee, and none may win thee to lie, forsaking the face
           of truth:
     Freedom lives by the grace she gives thee, born again from thy
           deathless youth:
     Faith should fail, and the world turn pale, wert thou the prey of
           the serpent's tooth.

     Greed and fraud, unabashed, unawed, may strive to sting thee at
           heel in vain:
     Craft and fear and mistrust may leer and mourn and murmur and plead
           and plain:
     Thou art thou: and thy sunbright brow is hers that blasted the
           strength of Spain.

     Mother, mother beloved, none other could claim in place of thee
           England's place:
     Earth bears none that beholds the sun so pure of record, so clothed
           with grace:
     Dear our mother, nor son nor brother is thine, as strong or as fair
           of face.

     How shalt thou be abased? or how shall fear take hold of thy heart?
           of thine,
     England, maiden immortal, laden with charge of life and with hopes
           divine?
     Earth shall wither, when eyes turned hither behold not light in her
           darkness shine.

     England, none that is born thy son, and lives, by grace of thy
           glory, free,
     Lives and yearns not at heart and burns with hope to serve as he
           worships thee;
     None may sing thee: the sea-wind's wing beats down our songs as it
           hails the sea.





     When I had wings, my brother,
       Such wings were mine as thine:
     Such life my heart remembers
     In all as wild Septembers
     As this when life seems other,
       Though sweet, than once was mine;
     When I had wings, my brother,
       Such wings were mine as thine.

     Such life as thrills and quickens
       The silence of thy flight,
     Or fills thy note's elation
     With lordlier exultation
     Than man's, whose faint heart sickens
       With hopes and fears that blight
     Such life as thrills and quickens
       The silence of thy flight.

     Thy cry from windward clanging
       Makes all the cliffs rejoice;
     Though storm clothe seas with sorrow,
     Thy call salutes the morrow;
     While shades of pain seem hanging
       Round earth's most rapturous voice,
     Thy cry from windward clanging
       Makes all the cliffs rejoice.

     We, sons and sires of seamen,
       Whose home is all the sea,
     What place man may, we claim it;
     But thine--whose thought may name it?
     Free birds live higher than freemen,
       And gladlier ye than we--
     We, sons and sires of seamen,
       Whose home is all the sea.

     For you the storm sounds only
       More notes of more delight
     Than earth's in sunniest weather:
     When heaven and sea together
     Join strengths against the lonely
       Lost bark borne down by night,
     For you the storm sounds only
       More notes of more delight.

     With wider wing, and louder
       Long clarion-call of joy,
     Thy tribe salutes the terror
     Of darkness, wild as error,
     But sure as truth, and prouder
       Than waves with man for toy;
     With wider wing, and louder
       Long clarion-call of joy.

     The wave's wing spreads and flutters,
       The wave's heart swells and breaks;
     One moment's passion thrills it,
     One pulse of power fulfils it
     And ends the pride it utters
       When, loud with life that quakes,
     The wave's wing spreads and flutters,
       The wave's heart swells and breaks.

     But thine and thou, my brother,
       Keep heart and wing more high
     Than aught may scare or sunder;
     The waves whose throats are thunder
     Fall hurtling each on other,
       And triumph as they die;
     But thine and thou, my brother,
       Keep heart and wing more high.

     More high than wrath or anguish,
       More strong than pride or fear,
     The sense or soul half hidden
     In thee, for us forbidden,
     Bids thee nor change nor languish,
       But live thy life as here,
     More high than wrath or anguish,
       More strong than pride or fear.

     We are fallen, even we, whose passion
       On earth is nearest thine;
     Who sing, and cease from flying;
     Who live, and dream of dying:
     Grey time, in time's grey fashion,
       Bids wingless creatures pine:
     We are fallen, even we, whose passion
       On earth is nearest thine.

     The lark knows no such rapture,
       Such joy no nightingale,
     As sways the songless measure
     Wherein thy wings take pleasure:
     Thy love may no man capture,
       Thy pride may no man quail;
     The lark knows no such rapture,
       Such joy no nightingale.

     And we, whom dreams embolden,
       We can but creep and sing
     And watch through heaven's waste hollow
     The flight no sight may follow
     To the utter bourne beholden
       Of none that lack thy wing:
     And we, whom dreams embolden,
       We can but creep and sing.

     Our dreams have wings that falter,
       Our hearts bear hopes that die;
     For thee no dream could better
     A life no fears may fetter,
     A pride no care can alter,
       That wots not whence or why
     Our dreams have wings that falter,
       Our hearts bear hopes that die.

     With joy more fierce and sweeter
       Than joys we deem divine
     Their lives, by time untarnished,
     Are girt about and garnished,
     Who match the wave's full metre
       And drink the wind's wild wine
     With joy more fierce and sweeter
       Than joys we deem divine.

     Ah, well were I for ever,
       Wouldst thou change lives with me,
     And take my song's wild honey,
     And give me back thy sunny
     Wide eyes that weary never,
       And wings that search the sea;
     Ah, well were I for ever,
       Wouldst thou change lives with me.

   
     O sea-stray, seed of Apollo,
       What word wouldst thou have with me?
     My ways thou wast fain to follow
       Or ever the years hailed thee
               Man.

               Now
     If August brood on the valleys,
       If satyrs laugh on the lawns,
     What part in the wildwood alleys
       Hast thou with the fleet-foot fauns--
               Thou?

               See!
     Thy feet are a man's--not cloven
       Like these, not light as a boy's:
     The tresses and tendrils inwoven
       That lure us, the lure of them cloys
               Thee.

               Us
     The joy of the wild woods never
       Leaves free of the thirst it slakes:
     The wild love throbs in us ever
       That burns in the dense hot brakes
               Thus.

               Life,
     Eternal, passionate, awless,
       Insatiable, mutable, dear,
     Makes all men's law for us lawless:
       We strive not: how should we fear
               Strife?

               We,
     The birds and the bright winds know not
       Such joys as are ours in the mild
     Warm woodland; joys such as grow not
       In waste green fields of the wild
               Sea.

               No;
     Long since, in the world's wind veering,
       Thy heart was estranged from me:
     Sweet Echo shall yield thee not hearing:
       What have we to do with thee?
               Go.



               Ay!
     Such wrath on thy nostril quivers
       As once in Sicilian heat
     Bade herdsmen quail, and the rivers
       Shrank, leaving a path for thy feet
               Dry?

               Nay,
     Low down in the hot soft hollow
       Too snakelike hisses thy spleen:
     "O sea-stray, seed of Apollo!"
       What ill hast thou heard or seen?
               Say.

               Man
     Knows well, if he hears beside him
       The snarl of thy wrath at noon,
     What evil may soon betide him,
       Or late, if thou smite not soon,
               Pan.

               Me
     The sound of thy flute, that flatters
       The woods as they smile and sigh,
     Charmed fast as it charms thy satyrs,
       Can charm no faster than I
               Thee.

               Fast
     Thy music may charm the splendid
       Wide woodland silence to sleep
     With sounds and dreams of thee blended
       And whispers of waters that creep
               Past.

               Here
     The spell of thee breathes and passes
       And bids the heart in me pause,
     Hushed soft as the leaves and the grasses
       Are hushed if the storm's foot draws
               Near.

               Yet
     The panic that strikes down strangers
       Transgressing thy ways unaware
     Affrights not me nor endangers
       Through dread of thy secret snare
               Set.




               Whence
     May man find heart to deride me?
       Who made his face as a star
     To shine as a God's beside me?
       Nay, get thee away from us, far
               Hence.




               Then
     Shall no man's heart, as he raises
       A hymn to thy secret head,
     Wax great with the godhead he praises:
       Thou, God, shalt be like unto dead
               Men.




               Grace
     I take not of men's thanksgiving,
       I crave not of lips that live;
     They die, and behold, I am living,
       While they and their dead Gods give
               Place.



               Yea:
     Too lightly the words were spoken
       That mourned or mocked at thee dead:
     But whose was the word, the token,
       The song that answered and said
               Nay?



               Whose
     But mine, in the midnight hidden,
       Clothed round with the strength of night
     And mysteries of things forbidden
       For all but the one most bright
               Muse?




               Hers
     Or thine, O Pan, was the token
       That gave back empire to thee
     When power in thy hands lay broken
       As reeds that quake if a bee
               Stirs?




               Whom
     Have I in my wide woods need of?
       Urania's limitless eyes
     Behold not mine end, though they read of
       A word that shall speak to the skies
               Doom.




               She
     Gave back to thee kingdom and glory,
       And grace that was thine of yore,
     And life to thy leaves, late hoary
       As weeds cast up from the hoar
               Sea.

               Song
     Can bid faith shine as the morning
       Though light in the world be none:
     Death shrinks if her tongue sound warning,
       Night quails, and beholds the sun
               Strong.




               Night
     Bare rule over men for ages
       Whose worship wist not of me
     And gat but sorrows for wages,
       And hardly for tears could see
               Light.

               Call
     No more on the starry presence
       Whose light through the long dark swam:
     Hold fast to the green world's pleasance:
       For I that am lord of it am
               All.



               God,
     God Pan, from the glad wood's portal
       The breaths of thy song blow sweet:
     But woods may be walked in of mortal
       Man's thought, where never thy feet
               Trod.

               Thine
     All secrets of growth and of birth are,
       All glories of flower and of tree,
     Wheresoever the wonders of earth are;
       The words of the spell of the sea
               Mine.



     Like a queen enchanted who may not laugh or weep,
       Glad at heart and guarded from change and care like ours,
     Girt about with beauty by days and nights that creep
     Soft as breathless ripples that softly shoreward sweep,
       Lies the lovely city whose grace no grief deflowers.
     Age and grey forgetfulness, time that shifts and veers,
     Touch not thee, our fairest, whose charm no rival nears,
       Hailed as England's Florence of one whose praise gives grace,
     Landor, once thy lover, a name that love reveres:
       Dawn and noon and sunset are one before thy face.

     Dawn whereof we know not, and noon whose fruit we reap,
       Garnered up in record of years that fell like flowers,
     Sunset liker sunrise along the shining steep
     Whence thy fair face lightens, and where thy soft springs leap,
       Crown at once and gird thee with grace of guardian powers
     Loved of men beloved of us, souls that fame inspheres,
     All thine air hath music for him who dreams and hears;
       Voices mixed of multitudes, feet of friends that pace,
     Witness why for ever, if heaven's face clouds or clears,
       Dawn and noon and sunset are one before thy face.

     Peace hath here found harbourage mild as very sleep:
       Not the hills and waters, the fields and wildwood bowers,
     Smile or speak more tenderly, clothed with peace more deep,
     Here than memory whispers of days our memories keep
       Fast with love and laughter and dreams of withered hours.
     Bright were these as blossom of old, and thought endears
     Still the fair soft phantoms that pass with smiles or tears,
       Sweet as roseleaves hoarded and dried wherein we trace
     Still the soul and spirit of sense that lives and cheers:
       Dawn and noon and sunset are one before thy face.

     City lulled asleep by the chime of passing years,
     Sweeter smiles thy rest than the radiance round thy peers;
       Only love and lovely remembrance here have place.
     Time on thee lies lighter than music on men's ears;
       Dawn and noon and sunset are one before thy face.







               Baby, see the flowers!
                   --Baby sees
                 Fairer things than these,
     Fairer though they be than dreams of ours.

               Baby, hear the birds!
                   --Baby knows
                 Better songs than those,
     Sweeter though they sound than sweetest words.

               Baby, see the moon!
                   --Baby's eyes
                 Laugh to watch it rise,
     Answering light with love and night with noon.

               Baby, hear the sea!
                   --Baby's face
                 Takes a graver grace,
     Touched with wonder what the sound may be.

               Baby, see the star!
                   --Baby's hand
                 Opens, warm and bland,
     Calm in claim of all things fair that are.

               Baby, hear the bells!
                   --Baby's head
                 Bows, as ripe for bed,
     Now the flowers curl round and close their cells.

               Baby, flower of light,
                   Sleep, and see
                 Brighter dreams than we,
     Till good day shall smile away good night.






     Babe, if rhyme be none
       For that sweet small word
     Babe, the sweetest one
       Ever heard,

     Right it is and meet
       Rhyme should keep not true
     Time with such a sweet
       Thing as you.

     Meet it is that rhyme
       Should not gain such grace:
     What is April's prime
       To your face?

     What to yours is May's
       Rosiest smile? what sound
     Like your laughter sways
       All hearts round?

     None can tell in metre
       Fit for ears on earth
     What sweet star grew sweeter
       At your birth.

     Wisdom doubts what may be:
       Hope, with smile sublime,
     Trusts: but neither, baby,
       Knows the rhyme.

     Wisdom lies down lonely;
       Hope keeps watch from far;
     None but one seer only
       Sees the star.

     Love alone, with yearning
       Heart for astrolabe,
     Takes the star's height, burning
       O'er the babe.






     Baby-bird, baby-bird,
       Ne'er a song on earth
     May be heard, may be heard,
       Rich as yours in mirth.

     All your flickering fingers,
       All your twinkling toes,
     Play like light that lingers
       Till the clear song close.

     Baby-bird, baby-bird,
       Your grave majestic eyes
     Like a bird's warbled words
       Speak, and sorrow dies.

     Sorrow dies for love's sake,
       Love grows one with mirth,
     Even for one white dove's sake,
       Born a babe on earth.

     Baby-bird, baby-bird,
       Chirping loud and long,
     Other birds hush their words,
       Hearkening toward your song.

     Sweet as spring though it ring,
       Full of love's own lures,
     Weak and wrong sounds their song,
       Singing after yours.

     Baby-bird, baby-bird,
       The happy heart that hears
     Seems to win back within
       Heaven, and cast out fears.

     Earth and sun seem as one
       Sweet light and one sweet word
     Known of none here but one,
       Known of one sweet bird.


         Who may praise her?
     Eyes where midnight shames the sun,
     Hair of night and sunshine spun,
     Woven of dawn's or twilight's loom,
     Radiant darkness, lustrous gloom,
     Godlike childhood's flowerlike bloom,
     None may praise aright, nor sing
     Half the grace wherewith like spring
         Love arrays her.


         Love untold
     Sings in silence, speaks in light
     Shed from each fair feature, bright
     Still from heaven, whence toward us, now
     Nine years since, she deigned to bow
     Down the brightness of her brow,
     Deigned to pass through mortal birth:
     Reverence calls her, here on earth,
         Nine years old.



         Love's deep duty,
     Even when love transfigured grows
     Worship, all too surely knows
     How, though love may cast out fear,
     Yet the debt divine and dear
     Due to childhood's godhead here
     May by love of man be paid
     Never; never song be made
         Worth its beauty.



         Nought is all
     Sung or said or dreamed or thought
     Ever, set beside it; nought
     All the love that man may give--
     Love whose prayer should be, "Forgive!"
     Heaven, we see, on earth may live;
     Earth can thank not heaven, we know,
     Save with songs that ebb and flow,
         Rise and fall.


         No man living,
     No man dead, save haply one
     Now gone homeward past the sun,
     Ever found such grace as might
     Tune his tongue to praise aright
     Children, flowers of love and light,
     Whom our praise dispraises: we
     Sing, in sooth, but not as he
         Sang thanksgiving.


         Hope that smiled,
     Seeing her new-born beauty, made
     Out of heaven's own light and shade,
     Smiled not half so sweetly: love,
     Seeing the sun, afar above,
     Warm the nest that rears the dove,
     Sees, more bright than moon or sun,
     All the heaven of heavens in one
         Little child.



         Who may sing her?
     Wings of angels when they stir
     Make no music worthy her:
     Sweeter sound her shy soft words
     Here than songs of God's own birds
     Whom the fire of rapture girds
     Round with light from love's face lit;
     Hands of angels find no fit
         Gifts to bring her.



         Babes at birth
     Wear as raiment round them cast,
     Keep as witness toward their past,
     Tokens left of heaven; and each,
     Ere its lips learn mortal speech,
     Ere sweet heaven pass on pass reach,
     Bears in undiverted eyes
     Proof of unforgotten skies
         Here on earth.


         Quenched as embers
     Quenched with flakes of rain or snow
     Till the last faint flame burns low,
     All those lustrous memories lie
     Dead with babyhood gone by:
     Yet in her they dare not die:
     Others, fair as heaven is, yet,
     Now they share not heaven, forget:
         She remembers.





     Lord of days and nights that hear thy word of wintry warning,
       Wind, whose feet are set on ways that none may tread,
     Change the nest wherein thy wings are fledged for flight by
           morning,
       Change the harbour whence at dawn thy sails are spread.
     Not the dawn, ere yet the imprisoning night has half released her,
       More desires the sun's full face of cheer, than we,
     Well as yet we love the strength of the iron-tongued north-easter,
       Yearn for wind to meet us as we front the sea.
     All thy ways are good, O wind, and all the world should fester,
       Were thy fourfold godhead quenched, or stilled thy strife:
     Yet the waves and we desire too long the deep south-wester,
       Whence the waters quicken shoreward, clothed with life.
     Yet the field not made for ploughing save of keels nor harrowing
       Save of storm-winds lies unbrightened by thy breath:
     Banded broad with ruddy samphire glow the sea-banks narrowing
       Westward, while the sea gleams chill and still as death.
     Sharp and strange from inland sounds thy bitter note of battle,
       Blown between grim skies and waters sullen-souled,
     Till the baffled seas bear back, rocks roar and shingles rattle,
       Vexed and angered and anhungered and acold.
     Change thy note, and give the waves their will, and all the
           measure,
       Full and perfect, of the music of their might,
     Let it fill the bays with thunderous notes and throbs of pleasure,
       Shake the shores with passion, sound at once and smite.
     Sweet are even the mild low notes of wind and sea, but sweeter
       Sounds the song whose choral wrath of raging rhyme
     Bids the shelving shoals keep tune with storm's imperious metre,
       Bids the rocks and reefs respond in rapturous chime.
     Sweet the lisp and lulling whisper and luxurious laughter,
       Soft as love or sleep, of waves whereon the sun
     Dreams, and dreams not of the darkling hours before nor after,
       Winged with cloud whose wrath shall bid love's day be done.
     Yet shall darkness bring the awakening sea a lordlier lover,
       Clothed with strength more amorous and more strenuous will,
     Whence her heart of hearts shall kindle and her soul recover
       Sense of love too keen to lie for love's sake still.
     Let thy strong south-western music sound, and bid the billows
       Brighten, proud and glad to feel thy scourge and kiss
     Sting and soothe and sway them, bowed as aspens bend or willows,
       Yet resurgent still in breathless rage of bliss.
     All to-day the slow sleek ripples hardly bear up shoreward,
       Charged with sighs more light than laughter, faint and fair,
     Like a woodland lake's weak wavelets lightly lingering forward,
       Soft and listless as the slumber-stricken air.
     Be the sunshine bared or veiled, the sky superb or shrouded,
       Still the waters, lax and languid, chafed and foiled,
     Keen and thwarted, pale and patient, clothed with fire or clouded,
       Vex their heart in vain, or sleep like serpents coiled.
     Thee they look for, blind and baffled, wan with wrath and weary,
       Blown for ever back by winds that rock the bird:
     Winds that seamews breast subdue the sea, and bid the dreary
       Waves be weak as hearts made sick with hope deferred.
     Let thy clarion sound from westward, let the south bear token
       How the glories of thy godhead sound and shine:
     Bid the land rejoice to see the land-wind's broad wings broken,
       Bid the sea take comfort, bid the world be thine.
     Half the world abhors thee beating back the sea, and blackening
       Heaven with fierce and woful change of fluctuant form:
     All the world acclaims thee shifting sail again, and slackening
       Cloud by cloud the close-reefed cordage of the storm.
     Sweeter fields and brighter woods and lordlier hills than waken
       Here at sunrise never hailed the sun and thee:
     Turn thee then, and give them comfort, shed like rain and shaken
       Far as foam that laughs and leaps along the sea.

     Far off is the sea, and the land is afar:
         The low banks reach at the sky,
         Seen hence, and are heavenward high;
     Though light for the leap of a boy they are,
         And the far sea late was nigh.

     The fair wild fields and the circling downs,
         The bright sweet marshes and meads
         All glorious with flowerlike weeds,
     The great grey churches, the sea-washed towns,
         Recede as a dream recedes.

     The world draws back, and the world's light wanes,
         As a dream dies down and is dead;
         And the clouds and the gleams overhead
     Change, and change; and the sea remains,
         A shadow of dreamlike dread.

     Wild, and woful, and pale, and grey,
         A shadow of sleepless fear,
         A corpse with the night for bier,
     The fairest thing that beholds the day
         Lies haggard and hopeless here.

     And the wind's wings, broken and spent, subside;
         And the dumb waste world is hoar,
         And strange as the sea the shore;
     And shadows of shapeless dreams abide
         Where life may abide no more.

     A sail to seaward, a sound from shoreward,
         And the spell were broken that seems
         To reign in a world of dreams
     Where vainly the dreamer's feet make forward
         And vainly the low sky gleams.

     The sea-forsaken forlorn deep-wrinkled
         Salt slanting stretches of sand
         That slope to the seaward hand,
     Were they fain of the ripples that flashed and twinkled
         And laughed as they struck the strand?

     As bells on the reins of the fairies ring
         The ripples that kissed them rang,
         The light from the sundawn sprang,
     And the sweetest of songs that the world may sing
         Was theirs when the full sea sang.

     Now no light is in heaven; and now
         Not a note of the sea-wind's tune
         Rings hither: the bleak sky's boon
     Grants hardly sight of a grey sun's brow--
         A sun more sad than the moon.

     More sad than a moon that clouds beleaguer
         And storm is a scourge to smite,
         The sick sun's shadowlike light
     Grows faint as the clouds and the waves wax eager,
         And withers away from sight.

     The day's heart cowers, and the night's heart quickens:
         Full fain would the day be dead
         And the stark night reign in his stead:
     The sea falls dumb as the sea-fog thickens
         And the sunset dies for dread.

     Outside of the range of time, whose breath
         Is keen as the manslayer's knife
         And his peace but a truce for strife,
     Who knows if haply the shadow of death
         May be not the light of life?

     For the storm and the rain and the darkness borrow
         But an hour from the suns to be,
         But a strange swift passage, that we
     May rejoice, who have mourned not to-day, to-morrow,
         In the sun and the wind and the sea.




     Summer's face was rosiest, skies and woods were mellow,
     Earth had heaven to friend, and heaven had earth to fellow,
       When we met where wooded hills and meadows meet.
     Autumn's face is pale, and all her late leaves yellow,
       Now that here again we greet.

     Wan with years whereof this eightieth nears December,
       Fair and bright with love, the kind old face I know
     Shines above the sweet small twain whose eyes remember
     Heaven, and fill with April's light this pale November,
       Though the dark year's glass run low.

     Like a rose whose joy of life her silence utters
     When the birds are loud, and low the lulled wind mutters,
       Grave and silent shines the boy nigh three years old.
     Wise and sweet his smile, that falters not nor flutters,
       Glows, and turns the gloom to gold.

     Like the new-born sun's that strikes the dark and slays it,
       So that even for love of light it smiles and dies,
     Laughs the boy's blithe face whose fair fourth year arrays it
     All with light of life and mirth that stirs and sways it
       And fulfils the deep wide eyes.

     Wide and warm with glowing laughter's exultation,
     Full of welcome, full of sunbright jubilation,
       Flash my taller friend's quick eyebeams, charged with glee;
     But with softer still and sweeter salutation
       Shine my smaller friend's on me.

     Little arms flung round my bending neck, that yoke it
       Fast in tender bondage, draw my face down too
     Toward the flower-soft face whose dumb deep smiles invoke it;
     Dumb, but love can read the radiant eyes that woke it,
       Blue as June's mid heaven is blue.

     How may men find refuge, how should hearts be shielded,
     From the weapons thus by little children wielded,
       When they lift such eyes as light this lustrous face--
     Eyes that woke love sleeping unawares, and yielded
       Love for love, a gift of grace,

     Grace beyond man's merit, love that laughs, forgiving
       Even the sin of being no more a child, nor worth
     Trust and love that lavish gifts above man's giving,
     Touch or glance of eyes and lips the sweetest living,
       Fair as heaven and kind as earth?





     Night, whom in shape so sweet thou here may'st see
       Sleeping, was by an Angel sculptured thus
       In marble, and since she sleeps hath life like us:
     Thou doubt'st? Awake her: she will speak to thee.


     Sleep likes me well, and better yet to know
       I am but stone. While shame and grief must be,
       Good hap is mine, to feel not, nor to see:
     Take heed, then, lest thou wake me: ah, speak low.





     "Return," we dare not as we fain
       Would cry from hearts that yearn:
     Love dares not bid our dead again
       Return.

       O hearts that strain and burn
     As fires fast fettered burn and strain!
       Bow down, lie still, and learn.

     The heart that healed all hearts of pain
       No funeral rites inurn:
     Its echoes, while the stars remain,
       Return.



     Days dawn on us that make amends for many
            Sometimes,
     When heaven and earth seem sweeter even than any
            Man's rhymes.

     Light had not all been quenched in France, or quelled
            In Greece,
     Had Homer sung not, or had Hugo held
            His peace.

     Had Sappho's self not left her word thus long
            For token,
     The sea round Lesbos yet in waves of song
            Had spoken.


     And yet these days of subtler air and finer
            Delight,
     When lovelier looks the darkness, and diviner
            The light--

     The gift they give of all these golden hours,
            Whose urn
     Pours forth reverberate rays or shadowing showers
            In turn--

     Clouds, beams, and winds that make the live day's track
            Seem living--
     What were they did no spirit give them back
            Thanksgiving?



     Dead air, dead fire, dead shapes and shadows, telling
            Time nought;
     Man gives them sense and soul by song, and dwelling
            In thought.

     In human thought their being endures, their power
            Abides:
     Else were their life a thing that each light hour
            Derides.

     The years live, work, sigh, smile, and die, with all
            They cherish;
     The soul endures, though dreams that fed it fall
            And perish.




     In human thought have all things habitation;
            Our days
     Laugh, lower, and lighten past, and find no station
            That stays.

     But thought and faith are mightier things than time
            Can wrong,
     Made splendid once with speech, or made sublime
            By song.

     Remembrance, though the tide of change that rolls
            Wax hoary,
     Gives earth and heaven, for song's sake and the soul's,
            Their glory.



     Return, they cry, ere yet your day
       Set, and the sky grow stern:
     Return, strayed souls, while yet ye may
       Return.

       But heavens beyond us yearn;
     Yea, heights of heaven above the sway
       Of stars that eyes discern.

     The soul whose wings from shoreward stray
       Makes toward her viewless bourne
     Though trustless faith and unfaith say,
       Return.







     If we dream that desire of the distance above us
     Should be fettered by fear of the shadows that seem,
     If we wake, to be nought, but to hate or to love us
                 If we dream,

     Night sinks on the soul, and the stars as they gleam
     Speak menace or mourning, with tongues to reprove us
     That we deemed of them better than terror may deem.

     But if hope may not lure us, if fear may not move us,
     Thought lightens the darkness wherein the supreme
     Pure presence of death shall assure us, and prove us
                 If we dream.






     April made me: winter laid me here away asleep.
     Bright as Maytime was my daytime; night is soft and deep:
     Though the morrow bring forth sorrow, well are ye that weep.

     Ye that held me dear beheld me not a twelvemonth long:
     All the while ye saw me smile, ye knew not whence the song
     Came that made me smile, and laid me here, and wrought you wrong.

     Angels, calling from your brawling world one undefiled,
     Homeward bade me, and forbade me here to rest beguiled:
     Here I sleep not: pass, and weep not here upon your child.





     Fourscore and five times has the gradual year
       Risen and fulfilled its days of youth and eld
       Since first the child's eyes opening first beheld
     Light, who now leaves behind to help us here
     Light shed from song as starlight from a sphere
       Serene as summer; song whose charm compelled
       The sovereign soul made flesh in Artevelde
     To stand august before us and austere,
     Half sad with mortal knowledge, all sublime
     With trust that takes no taint from change or time,
     Trust in man's might of manhood. Strong and sage,
       Clothed round with reverence of remembering hearts,
     He, twin-born with our nigh departing age,
       Into the light of peace and fame departs.






     Farewell: how should not such as thou fare well,
       Though we fare ill that love thee, and that live,
     And know, whate'er the days wherein we dwell
       May give us, thee again they will not give?

     Peace, rest, and sleep are all we know of death,
       And all we dream of comfort: yet for thee,
     Whose breath of life was bright and strenuous breath,
       We think the change is other than we see.

     The seal of sleep set on thine eyes to-day
       Surely can seal not up the keen swift light
     That lit them once for ever. Night can slay
       None save the children of the womb of night.

     The fire that burns up dawn to bring forth noon
       Was father of thy spirit: how shouldst thou
     Die as they die for whom the sun and moon
       Are silent? Thee the darkness holds not now:

     Them, while they looked upon the light, and deemed
       That life was theirs for living in the sun,
     The darkness held in bondage: and they dreamed,
       Who knew not that such life as theirs was none.

     To thee the sun spake, and the morning sang
       Notes deep and clear as life or heaven: the sea
     That sounds for them but wild waste music rang
       Notes that were lost not when they rang for thee.

     The mountains clothed with light and night and change,
       The lakes alive with wind and cloud and sun,
     Made answer, by constraint sublime and strange,
       To the ardent hand that bade thy will be done.

     We may not bid the mountains mourn, the sea
       That lived and lightened from thine hand again
     Moan, as of old would men that mourned as we
       A man beloved, a man elect of men,

     A man that loved them. Vain, divine and vain,
       The dream that touched with thoughts or tears of ours
     The spirit of sense that lives in sun and rain,
       Sings out in birds, and breathes and fades in flowers.

     Not for our joy they live, and for our grief
       They die not. Though thine eye be closed, thine hand
     Powerless as mine to paint them, not a leaf
       In English woods or glades of Switzerland

     Falls earlier now, fades faster. All our love
       Moves not our mother's changeless heart, who gives
     A little light to eyes and stars above,
       A little life to each man's heart that lives.

     A little life to heaven and earth and sea,
       To stars and souls revealed of night and day,
     And change, the one thing changeless: yet shall she
       Cease too, perchance, and perish. Who shall say?

     Our mother Nature, dark and sweet as sleep,
       And strange as life and strong as death, holds fast,
     Even as she holds our hearts alive, the deep
       Dumb secret of her first-born births and last.

     But this, we know, shall cease not till the strife
       Of nights and days and fears and hopes find end;
     This, through the brief eternities of life,
       Endures, and calls from death a living friend;

     The love made strong with knowledge, whence confirmed
       The whole soul takes assurance, and the past
     (So by time's measure, not by memory's, termed)
       Lives present life, and mingles first with last.

     I, now long since thy guest of many days,
       Who found thy hearth a brother's, and with thee
     Tracked in and out the lines of rolling bays
       And banks and gulfs and reaches of the sea--

     Deep dens wherein the wrestling water sobs
       And pants with restless pain of refluent breath
     Till all the sunless hollow sounds and throbs
       With ebb and flow of eddies dark as death--

     I know not what more glorious world, what waves
       More bright with life,--if brighter aught may live
     Than those that filled and fled their tidal caves--
       May now give back the love thou hast to give.

     Tintagel, and the long Trebarwith sand,
       Lone Camelford, and Boscastle divine
     With dower of southern blossom, bright and bland
       Above the roar of granite-baffled brine,

     Shall hear no more by joyous night or day
       From downs or causeways good to rove and ride
     Or feet of ours or horse-hoofs urge their way
       That sped us here and there by tower and tide.

     The headlands and the hollows and the waves,
       For all our love, forget us: where I am
     Thou art not: deeper sleeps the shadow on graves
       Than in the sunless gulf that once we swam.

     Thou hast swum too soon the sea of death: for us
       Too soon, but if truth bless love's blind belief
     Faith, born of hope and memory, says not thus:
       And joy for thee for me should mean not grief.

     And joy for thee, if ever soul of man
       Found joy in change and life of ampler birth
     Than here pens in the spirit for a span,
       Must be the life that doubt calls death on earth.

     For if, beyond the shadow and the sleep,
       A place there be for souls without a stain,
     Where peace is perfect, and delight more deep
       Than seas or skies that change and shine again,

     There none of all unsullied souls that live
       May hold a surer station: none may lend
     More light to hope's or memory's lamp, nor give
       More joy than thine to those that called thee friend.

     Yea, joy from sorrow's barren womb is born
       When faith begets on grief the godlike child:
     As midnight yearns with starry sense of morn
       In Arctic summers, though the sea wax wild,

     So love, whose name is memory, thrills at heart,
       Remembering and rejoicing in thee, now
     Alive where love may dream not what thou art
       But knows that higher than hope or love art thou.

     "Whatever heaven, if heaven at all may be,
       Await the sacred souls of good men dead,
     There, now we mourn who loved him here, is he,"
       So, sweet and stern of speech, the Roman said,

     Erect in grief, in trust erect, and gave
       His deathless dead a deathless life even here
     Where day bears down on day as wave on wave
       And not man's smile fades faster than his tear.

     Albeit this gift be given not me to give,
       Nor power be mine to break time's silent spell,
     Not less shall love that dies not while I live
       Bid thee, beloved in life and death, farewell.



     New Year, be good to England. Bid her name
       Shine sunlike as of old on all the sea:
       Make strong her soul: set all her spirit free:
     Bind fast her homeborn foes with links of shame
     More strong than iron and more keen than flame:
       Seal up their lips for shame's sake: so shall she
       Who was the light that lightened freedom be,
     For all false tongues, in all men's eyes the same.

     O last-born child of Time, earth's eldest lord,
       God undiscrowned of godhead, who for man
         Begets all good and evil things that live,
     Do thou, his new-begotten son, implored
       Of hearts that hope and fear not, make thy span
         Bright with such light as history bids thee give.



     Westward the sun sinks, grave and glad; but far
       Eastward, with laughter and tempestuous tears,
     Cloud, rain, and splendour as of orient spears,
     Keen as the sea's thrill toward a kindling star,
     The sundawn breaks the barren twilight's bar
       And fires the mist and slays it. Years on years
       Vanish, but he that hearkens eastward hears
     Bright music from the world where shadows are.

     Where shadows are not shadows. Hand in hand
     A man's word bids them rise and smile and stand
       And triumph. All that glorious orient glows
     Defiant of the dusk. Our twilight land
       Trembles; but all the heaven is all one rose,
       Whence laughing love dissolves her frosts and snows.






     Sweet heart, that no taint of the throne or the stage
       Could touch with unclean transformation, or alter
       To the likeness of courtiers whose consciences falter
     At the smile or the frown, at the mirth or the rage,
     Of a master whom chance could inflame or assuage,
       Our Lady of Laughter, invoked in no psalter,
       Adored of no faithful that cringe and that palter,
     Praise be with thee yet from a hag-ridden age.

     Our Lady of Pity thou wast: and to thee
     All England, whose sons are the sons of the sea,
       Gives thanks, and will hear not if history snarls
     When the name of the friend of her sailors is spoken;
     And thy lover she cannot but love--by the token
       That thy name was the last on the lips of King Charles.







     The tongue is loosed of that most lying slave,
       Whom stripes may move, not kindness. Listen: "Lo,
       The real god of song, Lord Stephano,
     That's a brave god, if ever god were brave,
     And bears celestial liquor: but," the knave
       (A most ridiculous monster) howls, "we know
       From Ariel's lips what springs of poison flow,
     The chicken-heart blasphemer! Hear him rave!"

     Thou poisonous slave, got by the devil himself
       Upon thy wicked dam, the witch whose name
         Is darkness, and the sun her eyes' offence,
     Though hell's hot sewerage breed no loathlier elf,
       Men cry not shame upon thee, seeing thy shame
         So perfect: they but bid thee--"Hag-seed, hence!"





     O daughter, why do ye laugh and weep,
         One with another?
     For woe to wake and for will to sleep,
         Mother, my mother.

     But weep ye winna the day ye wed,
         One with another.
     For tears are dry when the springs are dead,
         Mother, my mother.

     Too long have your tears run down like rain,
         One with another.
     For a long love lost and a sweet love slain,
         Mother, my mother.

     Too long have your tears dripped down like dew,
         One with another.
     For a knight that my sire and my brethren slew,
         Mother, my mother.

     Let past things perish and dead griefs lie,
         One with another.
     O fain would I weep not, and fain would I die,
         Mother, my mother.

     Fair gifts we give ye, to laugh and live,
         One with another.
     But sair and strange are the gifts I give,
         Mother, my mother.

     And what will ye give for your father's love?
         One with another.
     Fruits full few and thorns enough,
         Mother, my mother.

     And what will ye give for your mother's sake?
         One with another.
     Tears to brew and tares to bake,
         Mother, my mother.

     And what will ye give your sister Jean?
         One with another.
     A bier to build and a babe to wean,
         Mother, my mother.

     And what will ye give your sister Nell?
         One with another.
     The end of life and beginning of hell,
         Mother, my mother.

     And what will ye give your sister Kate?
         One with another.
     Earth's door and hell's gate,
         Mother, my mother.

     And what will ye give your brother Will?
         One with another.
     Life's grief and world's ill,
         Mother, my mother.

     And what will ye give your brother Hugh?
         One with another.
     A bed of turf to turn into,
         Mother, my mother.

     And what will ye give your brother John?
         One with another.
     The dust of death to feed upon,
         Mother, my mother.

     And what will ye give your bauld bridegroom?
         One with another.
     A barren bed and an empty room,
         Mother, my mother.

     And what will ye give your bridegroom's friend?
         One with another.
     A weary foot to the weary end,
         Mother, my mother.

     And what will ye give your blithe bridesmaid?
         One with another.
     Grief to sew and sorrow to braid,
         Mother, my mother.

     And what will ye drink the day ye're wed?
         One with another.
     But ae drink of the wan well-head,
         Mother, my mother.

     And whatten a water is that to draw?
         One with another.
     We maun draw thereof a', we maun drink thereof a',
         Mother, my mother.

     And what shall ye pu' where the well rins deep?
         One with another.
     Green herb of death, fine flower of sleep,
         Mother, my mother.

     Are there ony fishes that swim therein?
         One with another.
     The white fish grace, and the red fish sin,
         Mother, my mother.

     Are there ony birds that sing thereby?
         One with another.
     O when they come thither they sing till they die,
         Mother, my mother.

     Is there ony draw-bucket to that well-head?
         One with another.
     There's a wee well-bucket hangs low by a thread,
         Mother, my mother.

     And whatten a thread is that to spin?
         One with another.
     It's green for grace, and it's black for sin,
         Mother, my mother.

     And what will ye strew on your bride-chamber floor?
         One with another.
     But one strewing and no more,
         Mother, my mother.

     And whatten a strewing shall that one be?
         One with another.
     The dust of earth and sand of the sea,
         Mother, my mother.

     And what will ye take to build your bed?
         One with another.
     Sighing and shame and the bones of the dead,
         Mother, my mother.

     And what will ye wear for your wedding gown?
         One with another.
     Grass for the green and dust for the brown,
         Mother, my mother.

     And what will ye wear for your wedding lace?
         One with another.
     A heavy heart and a hidden face,
         Mother, my mother.

     And what will ye wear for a wreath to your head?
         One with another.
     Ash for the white and blood for the red,
         Mother, my mother.

     And what will ye wear for your wedding ring?
         One with another.
     A weary thought for a weary thing,
         Mother, my mother.

     And what shall the chimes and the bell-ropes play?
         One with another.
     A weary tune on a weary day,
         Mother, my mother.

     And what shall be sung for your wedding song?
         One with another.
     A weary word of a weary wrong,
         Mother, my mother.

     The world's way with me runs back,
         One with another,
     Wedded in white and buried in black,
         Mother, my mother.

     The world's day and the world's night,
         One with another,
     Wedded in black and buried in white,
         Mother, my mother.

     The world's bliss and the world's teen,
         One with another,
     It's red for white and it's black for green,
         Mother, my mother.

     The world's will and the world's way,
         One with another,
     It's sighing for night and crying for day,
         Mother, my mother.

     The world's good and the world's worth,
         One with another,
     It's earth to flesh and it's flesh to earth,
         Mother, my mother.


     When she came out at the kirkyard gate,
         (One with another)
     The bridegroom's mother was there in wait.
         (Mother, my mother.)

     O mother, where is my great green bed,
         (One with another)
     Silk at the foot and gold at the head,
         Mother, my mother?

     Yea, it is ready, the silk and the gold,
         One with another.
     But line it well that I lie not cold,
         Mother, my mother.

     She laid her cheek to the velvet and vair,
         One with another;
     She laid her arms up under her hair.
         (Mother, my mother.)

     Her gold hair fell through her arms fu' low,
         One with another:
     Lord God, bring me out of woe!
         (Mother, my mother.)

     Her gold hair fell in the gay reeds green,
         One with another:
     Lord God, bring me out of teen!
         (Mother, my mother.)

            *       *       *       *       *

     O mother, where is my lady gone?
         (One with another.)
     In the bride-chamber she makes sore moan:
         (Mother, my mother.)

     Her hair falls over the velvet and vair,
         (One with another)
     Her great soft tears fall over her hair.
         (Mother, my mother.)

     When he came into the bride's chamber,
         (One with another)
     Her hands were like pale yellow amber.
         (Mother, my mother.)

     Her tears made specks in the velvet and vair,
         (One with another)
     The seeds of the reeds made specks in her hair.
         (Mother, my mother.)

     He kissed her under the gold on her head;
         (One with another)
     The lids of her eyes were like cold lead.
         (Mother, my mother.)

     He kissed her under the fall of her chin;
         (One with another)
     There was right little blood therein.
         (Mother, my mother.)

     He kissed her under her shoulder sweet;
         (One with another)
     Her throat was weak, with little heat.
         (Mother, my mother.)

     He kissed her down by her breast-flowers red,
         One with another;
     They were like river-flowers dead.
         (Mother, my mother.)

     What ails you now o' your weeping, wife?
         (One with another.)
     It ails me sair o' my very life.
         (Mother, my mother.)

     What ails you now o' your weary ways?
         (One with another.)
     It ails me sair o' my long life-days.
         (Mother, my mother.)

     Nay, ye are young, ye are over fair.
         (One with another.)
     Though I be young, what needs ye care?
         (Mother, my mother.)

     Nay, ye are fair, ye are over sweet.
         (One with another.)
     Though I be fair, what needs ye greet?
         (Mother, my mother.)

     Nay, ye are mine while I hold my life.
         (One with another.)
     O fool, will ye marry the worm for a wife?
         (Mother, my mother.)

     Nay, ye are mine while I have my breath.
         (One with another.)
     O fool, will ye marry the dust of death?
         (Mother, my mother.)

     Yea, ye are mine, we are handfast wed,
         One with another.
     Nay, I am no man's; nay, I am dead,
         Mother, my mother.





     The years are many, the changes more,
     Since wind and sun on the wild sweet shore
       Where Joyous Gard stands stark by the sea
     With face as bright as in years of yore

     Shone, swept, and sounded, and laughed for glee
     More deep than a man's or a child's may be,
       On a day when summer was wild and glad,
     And the guests of the wind and the sun were we.

     The light that lightens from seasons clad
     With darkness now, is it glad or sad?
       Not sad but glad should it shine, meseems,
     On eyes yet fain of the joy they had.

     For joy was there with us; joy that gleams
     And murmurs yet in the world of dreams
       Where thought holds fast, as a constant warder,
     The days when I rode by moors and streams,

     Reining my rhymes into buoyant order
     Through honied leagues of the northland border.
       Though thought or memory fade, and prove
     A faithless keeper, a thriftless hoarder,

     One landmark never can change remove,
     One sign can the years efface not. Love,
       More strong than death or than doubt may be,
     Treads down their strengths, and abides above.

     Yea, change and death are his servants: we,
     Whom love of the dead links fast, though free,
       May smile as they that beheld the dove
     Bear home her signal across the sea.







